http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2014/10/15/11-new-universityresearchchairsembodyconcordiasnumerousstrengths.htmlThe Office of the Vice-President, Research and Graduate Studies has proudly announced Concordia’s 2014 University Research Chairs (CURC).

These 11 new chair holders from across the four faculties will play a vital role in creating and mobilizing knowledge with the aim of achieving research excellence. As leaders in their fields, they will deepen the university’s knowledge and research capacity while working to strengthen the teaching and training of highly qualified personnel.

“This year’s cohort of CURCs embody many of Concordia’s numerous research strengths,” says Graham Carr, vice-president of Research and Graduate Studies. “In addition to their individual accomplishments, all of these researchers are poised to make major contributions to building our leading-edge capacity in areas of strategic importance.”

Here are the new chair holders and the research questions that will guide their work.
 Krista Byers-Heinlein — Psychology
Concordia University Research Chair in Bilingualism (New Scholar)
“How does early language experience influence language acquisition?”Find out more on Explore Concordia.



Xiao Huang — Supply Chain and Business Technology Management
Concordia University Research Chair in Supply Change Management (New Scholar)
“How would a strategic alliance reshape one’s operational plan?”Find out more on Explore Concordia.



Heather Igloliorte — Art History
Concordia University Research Chair in Indigenous Art History and Community Engagement (New Scholar) “
 Does contemporary Aboriginal art assert cultural continuities with a precolonial past?”Find out more on Explore Concordia. 

 Liangzhu (Leon) Wang — Building, Civil and Environmental Engineering
Concordia University Research Chair in Building Fire Safety, Smoke, Airflow and Thermal Management (New Scholar) 
“Is it possible to predict a building’s fire safety and can we reconstruct the scene of a fire accident?”
 
 Find out more on Explore Concordia. 
 Zeynep Arsel — Marketing
Concordia University Research Chair in Consumption and Markets (Tier 2)
“How do people build, make sense of, and navigate within private and public spaces?”Find out more on Explore Concordia.



Nizar Bouguila — Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering
Concordia University Research Chair in Management, Analysis and Modelling of Big Multimodal Data and Applications (Tier 2) 
“Can we create a machine that will understand the meaning of images?”
 
 Find out more on Explore Concordia.

 Christopher Salter — Design and Computation Arts
Concordia University Research Chair in New Media, Technology and the Senses
(Tier 2) 
“How can we use the paradigm of performance to grapple with the increasingly complex nature of human-technical life?”
 
Find out more on Explore Concordia. 
 Jason Edward Lewis — Design and Computation Arts
Concordia University Research Chair in Computational Media and the Indigenous Future of Imaginary (Tier 1)
“How do reading and writing change as we do more of both in digital forms?”Find out more on Explore Concordia.


Vincent Martin — Biology
Concordia University Research Chair in Microbiology Engineering and Synthetic Biology (Tier 1)
Currently holds a Canada Research Chair. Will begin CURC as of December 1, 2014.
“One day, will we assemble living cells the way we now assemble computers?”Find out more on Explore Concordia. 
 Muthukumaran Packirisamy — Mechanical and Industrial Engineering
Concordia University Research Chair in Optical Bio Microsystems (Tier 1)
“How cozy and sophisticated can we make microchambers for hosting single cells in biomedical applications?”
 
 Find out more on Explore Concordia. 

 Carsten Wrosch — Psychology
Concordia University Research Chair in Aging and Health (Tier 1)
“Which personality factors protect health?”Find out more on Explore Concordia. 
 
 Discover more CURCs, Canadian Research Chairs and Professorships. 
        Provost welcomes 10 scholars to Concordia’s Circle of Distinction
    
        Concordia celebrates faculty’s commitment to classroom innovation
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia University11 new University Research Chairs ‘embody Concordia’s numerous strengths’News
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424