http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2016/08/11/a-newbies-guide-to-making-friends-at-concordia.html
Let’s be real, beginnings are scary.Starting university is a big step and can come with a lot of uncertainty. One of the more obvious challenges is making new friends.You’re in a strange, new place surrounded by unfamiliar faces, so it’s no surprise the prospect of connecting with others can feel daunting.What I learned through my own experience at Concordia, and abroad during my exchange in Denmark, is that universities are actually great places to create social networks.With that in mind, here are some quick tips that might help create lasting friendships.Put yourself out there. Attend events, workshops and social activities where other students are likely to be. The reality is a lot of people who are entering university are also looking to meet others. Don’t be afraid to start a conversation, and if you feel you’ve clicked with someone, ask if they want to hang out again.Seeing a familiar face waiting for you at the beginning of class can be a comfort.One way of doing this is by attending Orientation, which offers a slew of different opportunities for you to meet other students in a social setting before classes get underway. Why not join a new student tour? That way you’ll be with other incoming students and you’ll get the lay of the land right away.There’s still space to sign up for general tours of the Sir George Williams Campus (downtown) from December 14 to December 22, then again from January 9 to January 17. The general tour of the Loyola Campus is on January 11, starting at 11 a.m., at the Central Buiding (CC-301).Another way to establish connections early on is to reach out to an acquaintance who is also attending classes at Concordia. Even if they were someone you only knew from a high school or CEGEP class, or through a mutual friend, these connections can be valuable first points of reference.Also, your program may have its own Facebook page. If so, it doesn’t hurt to check it regularly — many times group outings are planned on these types of social media accounts.There are plenty of opportunities to network on a smaller scale via student groups at Concordia.There’s bound to be at least one club or association at Concordia that speaks to you. Joining it will give you a chance to meet others with similar interests in an informal setting. Plus, think of how easy it will be to start a conversation when you already know you have common ground!A student job is a great way to make new friends.Your co-workers may even end up being in the same faculty or program as you. Whether it’s at a campus café or at the bookstore, finding part-time work will give you an opportunity to socialize while also making some money.One of the main obstacles that can get in the way of making new friends is the fear of showing up to social events by yourself.Getting around this can be problematic, though, especially if you’re new in town and don’t know anyone yet.Do it anyways. Orientation events have student guides who are there to help you integrate. You can always speak with one of them before introducing yourself to your peers.Remember that this is a time when social circles haven’t yet been cemented, so there’s a lot of malleability and opportunity to enter different groups and speak to different people.If you’re still uncomfortable with heading out by yourself, Concordia’s International Students Office (ISO) holds weekly social activities every Friday afternoon for free (or a very low costs). Open to all students at Concordia, these events are dedicated to exploring the city. Common outtings include winter walks, snowshoeing, skaking and museum visits.Check the ISO web page for upcoming events.Finally, for those looking for a line or two to help break the ice, why not try one of these:Cheesy? Sure. But it could open up a conversation!
Check out the winter 2017 Concordia Orientation program to find the activities right for you! 
        8 awesome Concordia student services
    
        79 superb study spots at Concordia
    
        5 great places to start your student job hunt at Concordia
    
        What (exactly) Discover Concordia and Start Right can do for you
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityA newbie’s guide to making friends at ConcordiaNews
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsLatest storiesMost popularOPINION: Big Pharma’s troubles are good news for innovationConcordia receives funding for 5 Canada Research ChairsThe fight against fake newsConcordia receives $2 million to advance smart-grid technology‘Student success is more gratifying than any prize’13 essential tips for exam successTo nap or not to nap? Sleep tips for ConcordiansJason Camlot wins the Donald Gray Prize for best Victorian Studies essay‘We are conducting research in a living lab’What's it like to meet  the Oracle of Omaha?1.  Take the initiative
2.  Make connections before the term starts
3.  Join a student club
4.  Get a job on or around campus
5.  Know that it’s okay to show up to events aloneFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424