http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/hospitality/event-logistics/alcohol-at-events.htmlSelect your status to see what guidelines apply to your event.
   1.      Alcohol for Faculty/Staff events cannot be purchased from the SAQ and/or stores.
    2.      Only tagged alcohol is permitted. See how to purchase tagged alcohol below.
    3.      Events must be by invitation - an invitation/guest list must exist.
    4.      A Notice of a Reception or a Reunion Permit (obtained by Caterer) is required and 
             must be posted visible during the event. 
    5.      Event Organizer must abide by the:
             Responsibilities regarding the Sale and Service of Alcohol on campus.Failure to meet the above responsibilities may result in: Tagged alcohol can be ordered from either:

Order Tagged AlcoholAlcohol Delivery/Pick up Instructions  Notice of a ReceptionOrder tagged AlcoholYou must complete and return a signed copy of the Alcohol Waiver Form and Responsibilities to the Designated Space Administrator (DSA).
Alcohol PermitYou must ensure that the event is by invitation only:
Serving the alcohol at events (Persons serving the alcohol, providing bartending or wait service) must be:
Note: Only Alcohol Licensed Approved Caterers can procure the tagged alcohol and obtain an alcohol permit to serve or sell for your event.
 If you have questions or require further information regarding the process for alcohol at Faculty/Staff related events or for a specific alcohol-related event you are planning anywhere on campus, contact us:  Email: alcohol.coordinator@concordia.ca
Tel: 514-848-2424 ext 4043
 As per university financial rules and procedures, alcohol charges are not allowed for informal gatherings at the university – this includes holiday events. While a Notice of a Reception is required to extend the university liquor license to all activities serving alcohol, this license does not allow the sale of alcohol or “cash bar”. If you would like to host such an event, the following options are available:PLEASE NOTE: Caterers may require a minimum alcohol sale to provide “cash bar” services.  If the minimum sales target is not achieved, the balance charge cannot be expensed. In such cases, the organizer of the event will be personally responsible to pay the amount owed to the caterer.  Alcohol Coordinator is the person designated by the University to manage all aspects of the ordering and provisioning of alcohol purchased pursuant to a permanent bar permit held by Concordia University (“Tagged Alcohol”) on campus for Faculty and Staff functions.  The coordinator oversees events with alcohol on campus including but not limited to: ordering and managing the delivery of alcohol, issuing the Notice of a Reception, and may provide support regarding Reunion Permit requests for External members.Alcohol-Licensed Approved Caterer are University Approved Caterers which have permanent bar permits and can provide tagged alcohol to be served and/or sold at Faculty and Staff events.Alcohol Waiver and the Responsibilities Regarding the Sale and Service of Alcohol on Campus is applicable for all events where alcohol is served and/or sold, regardless of whether it is affiliated with a Notice of a Reception or a Reunion Permit. The event organizer must read and abide by the Responsibilities of the Sale and Service of Alcohol on Campus.Bar Permit is a type of permanent permit issued by the Régie. Only tagged alcohol may be served and/or sold at University Faculty/Staff events and if untagged alcohol is found on the premises, it is an infraction to applicable laws/regulations and will carry sanctions.Dean of Students Office is the Office of the Dean of Students is responsible for the Safe Server Program (SSP) and provides support regarding Reunion Permit requests for Student-related events.Designated Space Administrator (DSA) means individuals who are authorized to reserve certain University space. They are responsible for ensuring compliance with Authorized Reservation Process, this Policy and all University policies, procedures and guidelines regarding temporary use of space, food at events and the sale and service of alcohol on University space.Faculty/Staff Event is an event/social gathering organized by Faculty and staff whereby:
- an invitation/guest list exists  (often referred to by the Régie as a “closed” event)
- only tagged alcohol is permittedNotice of a Reception is an extension of a permanent bar permit which can be issued for an internal event organized by Faculty and staff (an event where all guests are invited and an invitation list exists) and where only tagged alcohol obtained pursuant to the permanent bar permit may be served.Régie des alcools, des courses et des jeux (the “Régie”) is the governmental agency in charge of administering the alcohol laws and regulations including the issuing of permits for alcohol related events.Reunion Permit is a temporary permit issued by the Régie to outside groups (applicable to students and external groups) to sell and/or serve alcohol at an event on Concordia premises.Safe Server Program (SSP) certifies community members to serve alcohol on campus. The purpose of this program is to educate servers on how to reduce alcohol-related harms through safer serving. The program is mandatory for any community member who intends to sell/serve alcohol on campus. The name of a trained server and their SSP certification number is required to book an event.Student Events are alcohol-related events organized by Students and where a Reunion Permit is obtained by the “Régie” and alcohol is purchased by the Event Organizer in accordance with the rules that apply to that permit.Tagged Alcohol is alcohol purchased pursuant to a permanent bar permit that bears the stamp or number related to that particular permanent permit. Tagged alcohol can be obtained through:
-  the University operated bar inventory with a Notice of Reception provided to serve alcohol or
-  an Alcohol Licensed University Approved Caterer and a Reunion Permit is obtained by said Caterer to serve and/or sell alcohol.University Approved Caterer are the approved food service caterers who form part of the University’s approved caterers list and are authorized to serve alcohol on campus. aterers who form part of the University’s approved caterers list and are authorized to serve alcohol on campus.As the Event Organizer, you are responsible for adhering to the Procedures Regarding the Sale and Service of Alcohol on Campus.In order to have alcohol at your event, you must complete, agree and return a signed copy of the Alcohol Waiver Form & Procedures to your Designated Space Administrator (DSA).  For requests through Myevents, the Waiver is integrated in the electronic form.The DSA will provide you with a University Letter of Authorization required to obtain your alcohol permit.Permit to Serve Alcohol: Permit to Sell Alcohol:  i.e. cash bar, registration fee or donations accepted at eventException: Only non-profit organizations can make a profit from the alcohol sales. Applications must be received by the RACJ:Exceptions:1.      Completed Application for a Reunion Permit2.      Completed Questionnaire for selling, if applicable3.      University Authorization Letter (provided by the DSA)4.      PaymentSend a complete package by registered mail to the Régie des alcools, des courses et des jeux:Mailing Address:
Régie des alcools, des courses et des jeux:
560, boulevard Charest Est
Québec (Québec) G1K 3J3 Your Alcohol Reunion Permit will be sent to you by the RACJ a few days before the event.You must submit a copy of the Reunion Permit to the Designated Space Administrator prior to the event.The Permit must be posted and visible at all times during the event, otherwise the event may be cancelled.The event organizer is responsible for obtaining their own alcohol unless the organizer has hired an Alcohol Licensed University Approved Caterer. Alcohol can be purchased from any SAQ location, but the closest outlets are:
SGW: SAQ, Faubourg, Sainte Catherine, 1618, rue Ste-Catherine Ouest
 Loyola: SAQ Selection, 6630 rue St-Jacques
Check store quantities in advance by using the online tool at SAQ.com. Or any licensed convenience store or grocery store for all other brands of beerDonations of alcohol are not permitted. Alcohol can be served/sold on campus by either:As the Event Organizer, you are responsible for adhering to the Procedures Regarding the Sale and Service of Alcohol on Campus.In order to have alcohol at your event, you must complete, agree and return a signed copy of the Alcohol Waiver Form & Procedures to your Designated Space Administrator (DSA).  For requests through Myevents, the Waiver is integrated in the electronic form.The DSA will provide you with a University Letter of Authorization required to obtain your alcohol permit. A Reunion permit is required from the government: Regie des alcools, des courses et des jeux (RACJ) is required:
  Mailing Address:
Régie des alcools, des courses et des jeux:
560, boulevard Charest Est
Québec (Québec) G1K 3J3Contact info:
514 873-3577Your Alcohol Reunion Permit will be sent to you by the RACJ a few days before the event.You must submit a copy of the Reunion Permit to the Designated Space Administrator prior to the event.The Permit must be posted and visible at all times during the event, otherwise the event may be cancelled. Applications must be received by the RACJ:Exceptions:The event organizer is responsible for obtaining their own alcohol unless the organizer has hired an Alcohol Licensed University Approved Caterer. Alcohol can be purchased from any SAQ location, but the closest outlets are:
SGW: SAQ, Faubourg, Sainte Catherine, 1618, rue Ste-Catherine Ouest
 Loyola: SAQ Selection, 6630 rue St-Jacques
Check store quantities in advance by using the online tool at SAQ.com. Or any licensed convenience store or grocery store for all other brands of beerDonations of alcohol are not permitted.
Alcohol may be served on campus by a UNIVERSITY APPROVED CATERER who is hired by the client and will provide service for the duration of the event.
            © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityAlcohol at eventsHospitality Concordia
            
                Hospitality Concordia
            IMPORTANT - FACULTY/STAFF EVENTSImportantContact usResponsibilities of the Event Organizer. How to proceed (see instructions)
                
            
                
					
                    1. As the Event Organizer, you assume the following responsibilities, and must:
                
            
                
					
                    2. Purchasing tagged alcohol
                
            
                
					
                    University Bar Inventory
                
            
                
					
                    Alcohol Licensed Approved Caterer
                
            
                
					
                    3. Event must be by invitation only
                
            
                
					
                    4. Persons authorized to serve alcohol at the event
                
            
                
					
                    5. Contact us for assistance
                
            
                
					
                    Summary of changes for Faculty and Staff
                
            
                
					
                    University Bar Inventory - Alcohol Products and Prices
                
            
                
					
                    Alcohol at holiday parties and informal gatherings
                
            
                
					
                    Definitions of terms related to Alcohol on Campus
                
            
                
					
                    1. Alcohol Waiver and Responsibilities
                
            
                
					
                    2.  Alcohol Reunion permits available
                
            
                
					
                    PERMIT COSTS
                
            
                
					
                    PERMIT APPLICATION DEADLINES
                
            
                
					
                    3. Documents required to obtain Alcohol Reunion Permits
                
            
                
					
                    4. Alcohol Reunion Permits from the Regie
                
            
                
					
                    5. How to Purchase Alcohol
                
            
                
					
                    6. Serving/Selling alcohol on campus
                
            
                
					
                    Documents required to serve and sell alcohol
                
            
                
					
                    1. Alcohol Waiver and Responsibilities Form
                
            
                
					
                    2. Alcohol  Reunion permit
                
            
                
					
                    PERMIT APPLICATION DEADLINES
                
            
                
					
                    PERMIT COSTS
                
            
                
					
                    How to purchase alcohol
                
            
                
					
                    How to serve alcohol on campus
                
            Concordia updates its procedures for alcohol at internal community events

 Read more...Having alcohol at your event? Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424All on-campus events with alcohol must adhere to the Policy on the Sale and Service of Alcohol on University Premises, and regulations from the Régie des alcools, des courses et des jeux (RACJ).The above applies for internal events organized by Faculty/Staff 
whenever alcohol is available 
A.  The University bar inventory (via Myevents)
B.  Alcohol Licensed Approved Caterer1.      A signed Alcohol Waiver Form is required to have alcohol at the event.
2.      An Alcohol Reunion Permit is required and must be posted at your event.