http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/campus-life/food-services/catering.htmlOrder online at Seasons Catering with Concordia’s in-house provider, select from a varied list of University Approved Caterers or choose to self-cater your event on campus. Whatever your choice may be, our goal is to cater to you, so that you can impress your guests and create a memorable experience for all.
See Seasons Catering MenuBelow are instructions in accordance with the Policy on the Sale and Service of Food and Beverage Service on University Space. Please review the definitions for catered and self-catered events and follow accordingly.An event held on University space where a caterer prepares, handles, and manipulates the food and delivers and/or provides wait staff service on-site.An event held on University space where the event organizer (or its representatives) comes into contact with food (preparing, handling, manipulating) either on or off-site.Select according to your activity:A Food Waiver is not required for Self-Catered Events where Lower Risk Foods will be served or sold. However, the event organizer must abide by the Procedures for the Sale or Service of Food and the Guide for Food Handlers. The non-respect of the guidelines appearing the these documents may result in the shut down of the event, at the sole discretion of the University.A completed Food Waiver must be received by the University at least twenty-five (25) business days prior to the event date.Foods that pathogens have trouble surviving in because they are drier, have a high sugar or salt content, or are more acidic. These foods do not need to be kept hot or cold. Examples of lower risk foods:Although traditional bake sale foods such as bread, cakes, pies, cookies and candies rarely cause illness, it is important to remember that under the right circumstances any food can cause foodborne illness.Foods that can support the growth of pathogens and/or foods that have been associated with causing food borne illness. These foods must be kept and served hot or cold (i.e. dairies, meats). Examples of higher risk foods:Money is collected on-site as food is sold or food is not sold on site but money is collected through a registration, admission, donation fee to attend the event, and the money collected goes towards the cost of the event or the food being provid© Concordia UniversityAbout Food Services
Places to eat
Meal plans
 Catering
Eating Responsibly

Contact us
FeedbackConcordia UniversityCateringFood Services
            
                Food Services
            STUDENT CATERING VALUE MENUYour decision: to cater or self-caterCatered Event instructions
                
            
                
					
                    Self-Catered Event Instructions
                
            
                
					A
                    Lower risk foods are served/sold
                
            
                
					B
                    Higher risk foods are SERVED
                
            
                
					C
                    Higher risk foods are SOLD
                
            
                
					
                    Lower Risk Foods
                
            
                
					
                    Higher Risk Food
                
            
                
					
                    Food Sold - Money ExchangesCatered events Self-catered eventsHelpful definitionsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424