http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/campus-life/safety/lab-safety/chemical-safety.htmlChemical safety has many scientific and technical components. Certain chemicals can be harmful to our health and environment, it is therefore important to ensure the safe management of chemical materials for use, disposal, storage, acquisition, inventory control, and regulatory compliance.EHS personnel provides training and advice to faculty, staff and students in ensuring safe chemical practices. Our goal is to improve chemical users knowledge of chemical safety and to ensure regulatory compliance.For more information refer to the chemical safety policy, procedures, guidelines, forms and manuals. If you require more information contact  Daniel Pagé, Chemical Safety Officer at extension 4408.Certain chemicals are more dangerous than others due to their reactivity or high toxicity.  Specific precautions must be taken, as well as following the laboratory safety procedures, when handling these reagents.  Each department is required department to develop specific Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) concerning the reagents.  Refer to the following safety guidelines for specific reagents: Although the use of metallic mercury is not prohibited at Concordia, EHS strongly suggests minimizing its usage. Mercury presents a health and safety hazard and has been recognized as a contaminant of the environment by Health Canada, Environment Canada and l’Institut national de santé publique du Québec. Lab users are most likely to encounter mercury in old laboratory equipment, such as thermometers, barometers or manometers. In the event of a mercury spill, special clean-up and disposal procedures must be followed.EHS has therefore instituted a green exchange program to replace mercury-containing thermometers with less hazardous alternative models. This exchange program is only available to Concordia labs/studios/workshops. The non-mercury thermometers contain about 0.15 mL of different colored organic liquids which are less hazardous in the event of a spill. This safer, greener alternative does not compromise the quality or precision of measurements.EHS can provide lab-grade replacement thermometers with temperature ranges from -20°C to 150°C. If you have any mercury thermometers in your possession and wish to exchange them, please contact EHS at hazardouswaste@concordia.ca, mentioning how many thermometers you wish to exchange.  Please note this program is based on a 1 to 1 exchange; EHS will distribute replacement thermometers only to labs that provide mercury thermometers in exchange.For higher temperature ranges, electronic thermometers can represent an interesting alternative to mercury as they can measure temperatures from -50°C to 300°C.  Most thermometers with mercury replacements (liquid or electronic) are unable to conduct temperature measurements above 300°C.  Therefore, other alternatives such as thermocouples should be considered.  Please note that these latest options are not available from EHS as part of the exchange program.There are chemicals that have the possibility of developing peroxides over time. Organic peroxides are substances characterized by the R-O-O-R structure, where R represents organic radicals. The O-O bond of organic peroxides is unstable and can lead to spontaneous decomposition. These products are oxidant and unstable and can create fire and/or explosive hazards. Organic peroxides should be kept in refridgerators for better stability. Refer to the MSDS of the reagents to find the specific storage conditions.All solvents and reagents that can form hazardous peroxides should be labeled once received and include the date and expiration date(s) (manufacturer's expiration date or "after reception" expiration date). It is the scientist’s responsibility to ensure the goods are received in this manner as well as the proper disposal of the solvents/reagents prior to the expiration date. Refer to the MSDS for guidance. Peroxide test strips can be purchased to assess the peroxide content of solvents/reagents that you are not certain of.Quantofix® peroxides test sticks 1-100 mg/L Sigma-AldrichPeroxide-containing solvents or reagents should never be heated or concentrated in order to avoid  explosive hazards. There are different techniques available to remove peroxides from solvents or reagents. If the peroxides can not be removed contact EHS to discard. (Do not mix with other chemicals) Nanoparticle safety is an area where the safety research is just starting to catch up to the exciting research associated with new discoveries and applications.Safety in an area where there are a great many unknowns and little to no regulation has to be handled in such a way that the known hazards are mitigated accordingly and the toxicity, especially unknown toxic effects are mitigated by exposure protection means.Environmental Health & Safety (EHS) has created guidelines concerning the use of nanoparticles within laboratory facilities. These guidelines provide information about the properties of commonly used nanoparticles/nanomaterials, their health and safety hazards and ways to protect oneself from potential laboratory exposure. A training session on “Safe Handling of Nanomaterials” offered by EHS.  Register on-line in the Safety Training section of the EHS webpage.Nanomaterial Safety GuidelinesIt is always preferable to refer to the MSDS for the storage requirements of individual chemicals.  However, as a general rule, it is preferable to separate the different chemical classes from each other:They must be stored in a way which will not allow chemicals to mix with one another if a container breaks e.g. secondary containment. Chemicals should not be stored in fume hoods. If a fume hood needs to be used for chemical storage, it must be clearly indicated and cannot be used to run experiments. Always store and use the minimum quantity of chemicals that are necessary for the laboratory.The following tables can be used for general guidelines in terms of storage compatibility.  However, you should always consult the MSDS for storage requirements of the specific material to verify its compatibility.Simplified Chemical Compatibility ChartDetailed Chemical Compatibility ChartFlammable and combustible liquids:Toxic chemicals:Oxidizing agents:Corrosive chemicals:Compressed gases:Water-reactive chemicals: The spill of any hazardous materials can pose a significant safety or health hazard to persons in the immediate vicinity due to the properties of hazardous materials (toxicity, volatility, flammability, explosiveness, corrosiveness, etc.) or by the release itself (quantity, space considerations, ventilation, heat and ignition sources, etc.).  Therefore, it is imperative that each research group clearly establishes within their SOPs the types of spills that can safely be handled by lab personnel solely.If laboratory staffs are to clean up a chemical spill, they must be sure to:For assistance, you may download: Typical Spill KitIf the spill cannot be handled by lab personnel (e.g. large spill, highly toxic reagents, etc.), the staff should contact Security using the following procedure:Any spill (large or small) involving hazardous material must be reported by filling up an incident report.  For more information concerning hazardous material spills, please consult the Concordia Emergency Management website:Concordia Emergency Management Web SiteLeaving experiments unattended should be avoided as much as possible.If this is unavoidable, the direct Supervisor must be informed and safety measures must be planned according to the following guidelines:EHS-Form-079-Unattended ExperimentLab equipment under pressure includes any closed container designed to hold gases or liquids at a pressure substantially higher or lower than the ambient pressure. Examples include glassware, compressed gas cylinders, vacuum chambers and custom designed laboratory vessels.RisksThe pressure differential generated, either positive or negative, is a potential hazard in the event that equipment under such pressure fails. Such failure can produce an explosion (or implosion) generating flying projectiles, gas leaks or spills of hazardous materials causing exposure or injury.
 Precautions
When working with pressurized vessels or experimental set-ups, the following steps must be taken to prevent personal injury:
 Vacuum Applications - GlasswareGlassware that is etched, cracked, chipped, nicked or scratched should never be used for vacuum work. Never use an Erlenmeyer flask under vacuum as a filtering flask. Filtering flasks are manufactured with extra thick walls to withstand vacuum applications.Not all desiccators are designed for vacuum applications; vacuum rated desiccators (PYREX brand) are only rated to one atmosphere of vacuum. Plastic (e.g. polycarbonate) desiccators reduce the risk of implosion and may be preferable but should also be shielded while evacuated. Never heat or move a desiccator under vacuum.Glassware under vacuum should be kept behind a shield or hood sash, taped, or resin (plastic) coated to minimize flying debris if the glass implodes.

Dewar FlasksDewar flasks are under high vacuum and can collapse as a result of thermal shock or a very slight mechanical shock.  They should therefore be shielded either by a layer of fiber-reinforced friction tape or by enclosure in a wooden or metal container, to reduce the risk of flying glass in case of collapse.Pressure Vessels – GlasswareRegular laboratory glassware should not be used as high pressure reaction flasks for air-free procedures. Specially designed heavy-wall tubes/bottles/flasks which are pressure rated (between 60 and 120 psig) and tested must be used instead. This glassware comes with easy-to-use threaded PTFE plugs with O-rings and can be epoxy or plastic coated as an extra safety measure.When performing reactions in closed vessels, one must think carefully about the solvent level in the flask. It should be based on the volatility of the solvent and the temperature used. If the system is to be heated over the boiling point of the solvent, the flask must never be over half full.The following table provides a temperature – pressure correlation for different solvents when used in a closed system (data from www.qlabtech.com).

Sealed tube (total volume 35 mL)Pressure (psi) generated atSolventSolvent BP (°C)Vol solvent used (mL)60°C90°C120°C160°CDiethyl Ether35111020  Dichloromethane39115275570Acetone5611 154060Methanol6511 153065Tetrahydrofuran6611 52246Ethyl Acetate7711   45Ethanol7811  2565Acetonitrile8211  2040Water10011  1518Toluene11111   20Acetic acid11811   15DMF15311   < 5Compressed, liquefied and cryogenic gases are routinely used in laboratories and various other operations at Concordia University.  These gases have the potential for creating hazardous working environments as internal cylinder pressures are typically between 2,000 to 3,000 psi.  The Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) Office promotes the safe use of gases by offering information on the proper storage, handling, use and disposal of compressed gas cylinders.  Please refer to the following Compressed Gas Safety Manual for more details.Environmental, Health & Safety: 
514-848-2424, ext. 4877514-848-2807
ehs@concordia.ca Staff directoryQuestions, comments or concerns?
Please fill out this formReport an injury or a near-miss
 MSDS/SDSRegister© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityChemical safety programContact usTrainings are availableGuidelines for Highly Reactive & Toxic Chemicals 
                
            
                
					
                    Mercury
                
            
                
					
                    Peroxide-Forming Reagents
                
            
                
					
                    Nanomaterials
                
            
                
					
                    Chemical Storage
                
            
                
					
                    Chemical Spill Response
                
            
                
					
                    Overnight Unattended Experiment
                
            
                
					
                    Laboratory Equipment Under PressureConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424