http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2014/06/04/convocation-preview12greatgradsbythenumbers.htmlFor an entire class of Concordians, the big day is almost here.At this month’s convocation ceremonies, more than 5,000 students will receive degrees, diplomas and certificates from the university. For all of them, this moment represents the end of an incredible educational journey.Each one of these new graduates began their time at Concordia with a single goal in mind. Now, with their studies complete, they are moving on to the next phases of their careers.The 2014 spring convocations take place on June 9, 10 and 11 at Salle Wilfrid-Pelletier in Place des Arts. Eight new honorands — CBC Radio host Stuart McLean, political columnist Chantal Hébert, neuroscientist Bryan Kolb, business leaders Louis R. Chênevert and Gregg Saretsky, art critic and curator Chantal Pontbriand, and philanthropists Michal and Renata Hornstein — will address the new graduates.They will be joined onstage by eight university valedictorians, two Governor General’s Academic Medal winners and two Distinguished Doctoral Dissertation Prize winners.We asked these 12 standout students for the secrets to their success.
 Emil Archambault
 BA, Liberal Arts College and Political Science
Valedictorian
Faculty of Arts and ScienceArchambault’s academic interests centre around the German philosopher and political theorist Carl Schmitt, the subject of his honours thesis. Next year, he will continue this line of research as a graduate student at the University of St. Andrews in Scotland. Archambault is also being awarded the Liberal Arts College Prize.3 keys to a good education2 lessons learned at Concordia1 piece of advice for graduatesMary Caple
 BA, History
Valedictorian
Faculty of Arts and ScienceCaple’s research focuses on the history of cartography, data visualization and diagrams. Last year, her work took her to Charlottesville, Virginia, where she interned with BackStory, a history-focused radio show and podcast. Right now, she’s working at Concordia’s Centre for Ethnographic Research and Exhibition in the Aftermath of Violence.3 keys to a good education2 lessons learned at Concordia
1 piece of advice for graduatesCameron H. Tisshaw
 BA, Psychology
Valedictorian
Faculty of Arts and ScienceTisshaw’s undergraduate thesis explored the development and neurological underpinnings of same-sex partner relationships in male rats. He’s interested in neuropsychology and, as a graduate student, would like to research Alzheimer’s disease. Tisshaw is also receiving the Science College Prize and the Malone Medal.3 keys to a good education
2 lessons learned at Concordia
1 piece of advice for graduatesOmar Badawi
 BEng, Electrical Engineering
Valedictorian
Faculty of Engineering and Computer ScienceBadawi’s research is currently focused on antennas. In his final year at Concordia, he was part of a team that created a functional anechoic chamber capable of measuring the radiation patterns of high-frequency antennas. Badawi aspires to a career as an engineer, and he also hopes to study law one day.3 keys to a good education2 lessons learned at Concordia1 piece of advice for graduatesHilary Whiting
BEng, Civil Engineering
Valedictorian
Faculty of Engineering and Computer ScienceOver the course of her studies, Whiting became passionate about urban environments and the complex interactions between society and civil engineering. Last summer, she studied urban design at Harvard University. She hopes to launch a design firm that will work toward creating more sustainable cities.3 keys to a good education2 lessons learned at Concordia1 piece of advice for graduatesKaterina Fragos
BComm, Finance
Valedictorian
John Molson School of BusinessAs one of 11 winners of executive search firm Odgers Berndtson’s CEO x 1 Day competition, Fragos got to shadow Videotron president and COO Manon Brouillette. Fragos also served as vice-president of Academic Affairs of the John Molson Competition Committee and represented the John Molson School of Business at various case competitions. She hopes to complete a master’s degree at Oxford University.3 keys to a good education2 lessons learned at Concordia1 piece of advice for graduatesSokhna Fatim Niang
 BComm, Business Technology Management
Valedictorian
John Molson School of BusinessNiang’s research interests lie in business intelligence and change management. She served as president of the African Students’ Association of Concordia. She dreams of working for Google, and she may one day pursue a master’s degree in business intelligence.3 keys to a good education2 lessons learned at Concordia1 piece of advice for graduatesKaterina Korola
 BFA, Art History and Film Studies
Valedictorian
Faculty of Fine Arts

Korola’s work explores the intersections of 20th-century architecture and moving image practices, travel narratives and exhibition architecture. She served as editor-in-chief of the Concordia Undergraduate Journal of Art History and curated a range of student exhibitions. She'll begin a PhD in Cinema and Media Studies at the University of Chicago in autumn 2014.

 3 keys to a good education2 lessons learned at Concordia1 piece of advice for future graduatesGwyneth Edwards
 PhD, Business Administration
Governor General’s Gold Medal winner
John Molson School of BusinessEdwards is investigating how strategic practices in organizations can enable and constrain performance. She’s particularly interested in how strategy unfolds over time and how firms can become locked into patterns of behaviour. She is an assistant professor at HEC Montréal, and has received a three-year Fonds de recherche sur la société et la culture grant to extend her thesis work. She hopes to publish in Administrative Science Quarterly one day.3 keys to a good education2 lessons learned at Concordia1 piece of advice for graduatesCharles Maranda
 BSc, Mathematical and Computational Finance
Governor General’s Silver Medal winner
Faculty of Arts and ScienceMaranda’s interest in mathematics, statistics and finance drew him to Concordia’s Department of Mathematics and Statistics. During his second year of study, he took part in an exchange at the National University of Singapore. He now plans to pursue a master’s degree in the same field.3 keys to a good education2 lessons learned at Concordia1 piece of advice for graduatesEric Weissman
 Distinguished Doctoral Dissertation Prize winner in Fine Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences
Faculty of Arts and ScienceWeissman is a visual ethnographer who uses still and moving images to produce narratives about social problems. For 15 years, his work has focused on the growing movement of intentional homeless communities and the relationship between forms of housing and health care, along with the well-being of people and communities. In addition to pursuing this work further, he plans to write an autoethnobiography.3 keys to a good education2 lessons learned at Concordia1 piece of advice for graduatesLexuan Zhong
Distinguished Doctoral Dissertation Prize winner in Engineering and Natural Sciences
Faculty of Engineering and Computer ScienceZhong has extensive research and engineering experience in the field of air quality, as well as an in-depth understanding of physicochemical purification technologies, catalysis and nanotechnology. She specializes in the measurement and analysis of organic compounds, the design of air purification systems, the development and application of air cleaning models, nano-material optimization and air quality assessment.3 keys to a good education2 lessons learned at Concordia1 piece of advice for graduates Read about a turning point in six of this spring’s honorands’ lives, and consult the complete Concordia spring 2014 convocation schedule. 
        Concordia awards honorary doctorates to 8 distinguished Canadians
    
        Concordia’s new honorands describe a turning point in their lives 
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityConvocation preview: 12 great grads, in numbersNews
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topics12 great Concordia grads, in numbers
 Find an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424