http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/faculty.html
       
                Biography   
       
                Concordia Climate Science, Impacts and Mitigation Studies (C2SIMS) Lab   
       
                Teaching activities   
       
                Publications   Damon Matthews's Explore Concordia pageDr. Damon Matthews is Associate Professor and Concordia University Research Chair (Climate Science and Sustainability) in     the Department of Geography Planning and Environment. He obtained a B.Sc. in Environmental    Science from Simon Fraser University in 1999, and a Ph.D. in Earth and Ocean Sciences from     the University of Victoria in 2004. Prior to joining Concordia University in January 2007,     he held a post-doctoral fellowship at the University of Calgary, and worked as a post-doctoral     researcher at the Carnegie Institution at Stanford. Dr. Matthews currently teaches courses     on the climate system, climate change and environmental modelling at Concordia University.     His research is aimed at better understanding the many possible interactions between human     activities, natural ecosystems and future climate change, and contributing to the scientific     knowledge base required to promote the development of sound national and international     climate policy. Dr. Matthews holds several current research grants for projects to investigate     uncertainties associated with the climate response to cumulative greenhouse gas emissions. He has published a number of research papers in the area of     global climate modelling, with particular emphasis on the role of the global carbon cycle in     the climate system, estimating allowable emissions for climate stabilization, and understanding     our commitment to long-term climate warming.  Dr. Matthews was a recent member of the U.S. National    Academy of Sciences "Committee on Stabilization Targerts for Atmospheric Greenhouse Gas Concentrations,"     and was a contributing author to the Fourth and Fifth Assessment Reports of the Intergovernmental     Panel on Climate Change. Canadian Meteorological and Oceanography Society
American Geophysical UnionAttention Media: Will speak on climate change related issuesView Damon Matthews's CVVisit the C2SIMS lab website              I am looking for graduate students interested in learning about global warming and climate              modelling, and exploring the role of greenhouse gas cycles in the context of recent and              future climate change.  Potential students should have good quantitative skills, and some              knowledge of computer programming would be an asset.  Possible research projects include:GEOL 440 - Current Research in Environmental Earth Science
GEOG 378 - The Climate System
GEOG 498C - Climate Change
HENV 655 - Environmental Modeling
HENV 610 - Quantitative Research Methods© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityDamon Matthews, PhDConcordia Climate Science, Impacts and Mitigation Studies (C2SIMS) LabTeaching activitiesPublicationsProfessor, Geography, Planning and Environment
                    
            Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Professional affiliationsGraduate student opportunitiesCurrent Climate Lab student projects201420132012201120102009200720062005 and earlier