http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/events/offices/vpaer/oce/2017/03/23/democratizing-knowledge.htmlAny time students and professors are engaging with the community on a project, there are many different power dynamics at work. When it comes to more technical or specialized knowledge, the degrees and prestige granted by one’s association with a university makes the expert/non-expert dynamic even more pronounced.  Recognizing that, in the interest of mutually beneficial partnerships where the learning flows in all directions, it is important to take steps to breakdown these hierarchies, this community of practice event invites participants to consider what it would take to meaningfully level the playing field.By recognizing the presence and the impact of the academic gaze, what steps can we take to address it?  What participatory practices might enable us to value and integrate less formalized ways of knowing and non-academic expertise? What would change if we modeled these same practices in our classroom? How can we best support our students as they learn to work more collaboratively with their community partners and each other?Together, we will explore what it means to take democracy seriously in space and time. As professors and urban practitioners, how can we become facilitators rather than leaders? How can we make sure that the technical expertise we have to offer doesn’t stop the community from running the show?Guests:Silvano de la LlataOther guest(s) to be confirmed.
 This is the final of four meetings of the Living Knowledge community of practice during the 2016-2017 academic year. The Living Knowledge community of practice brings together faculty and staff who share a passion for community engaged scholarship, with the goal of creating connections, sharing ideas and strengthening our collective practice. Students, community organizers and representatives from other universities are also welcome. For more information, or to RSVP, please email livingknowledge@concordia.ca.
© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
                        Democratizing Knowledge: How can we facilitate community-based projects without leading them?Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424