http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2014/05/08/don-t-miss-these2014deadlines.html
It’s never too early to start thinking about university deadlines. These are the priorities for May and June 2014.The last day to register or make section changes to two-term and first-term summer session courses is Wednesday, May 14.The last day for academic withdrawal from first‑term summer session courses is Wednesday, June 4. For complete details on deadlines for dropping courses with or without a tuition refund, visit the Term Dates and Deadlines page.
 Payment of summer tuition and fees is due Saturday, May 31, for both undergraduate and graduate students. You can confirm your balance owing on the MyConcordia portal under Student Account Services. Multiple payment methods are available, including a new option: MasterCard.If you are concerned about meeting this deadline, you can contact the Financial Aid and Awards Office for information on budgeting, scholarships, bursaries and government aid.
 1. Check your account and be sure to pay any outstanding fees, including library fees, before the Monday, May 26, deadline.2. If you’re not attending convocation, you can pick up your diploma after Monday, June 30, at Enrolment Services, or in the Birks Student Service Centre if you still have a balance owing. Alternatively, you can have your diploma mailed to you.3. If you are planning to attend your convocation ceremony, you’ll need to pick up your gown and marshaling card in the Atrium of the J.W. McConnell (LB) Building on either June 3, 4 or 5 (Faculty of Fine Arts and Faculty of Arts and Science) or June 4 or 5 (Engineering and Computer Science and John Molson School of Business).4. Convocation dates are: Monday, June 9, for Arts and Science, Tuesday, June 10, for Engineering and Computer Science, and Wednesday, June 11, for both John Molson School of Business and Fine Arts.
 For full details, visit the Graduation and Convocation page. 
  Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityDon’t miss these 2014 deadlines!News
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated topicsConfirm your course schedulePay your tuition and feesAre you graduating this spring?Find an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424