http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/campus-life/sustainability/SustEvents/EarthDay.htmlOn April 22nd 1970, more than 20 million Americans took to the streets, demanding a more healthy and sustainable environment. This first “Earth Day” led to the creation of the United States Environmental Protection Agency and the creation of the Clean Air, Clean Water Act as well as the Endangered Species Act. Every year since then, it is said that more than a billion people all around the world celebrate Earth Day on April 22nd to reinforce the need for humans to adopt a more sustainable way of living.More information on Earth Day can be found at: http://www.earthday.org The EHS Sustainability Team and our volunteers spoke to over 200 Concordians both at the SGW campus and Loyola campus at our tables set up for most of the day in the GM and SP buildings. Many took advantage of the opportunity to participate in some of our biggest projects this year.  2 lucky winners won a summer subscription to one of the Community Supported Agriculture (CSA) farmer's baskets on campus offered by Food Services. Over 100 Loyola entries and 120 entries from SGW made the giveaway a great success. Thank you to everyone who participated!Lufa Farms (Loyola) and Les Jardins de la résistance (SGW) deliver baskets of fresh vegetables every week on both campuses. Feel free to register with them and enjoy fresh veggies all year round!You can also get fresh, local, organically grown produce at Frigo Vert or every week from the Farmer’s Market at SGW. At Loyola the City Farm School has a market stand starting in June until the fall. An unforgettable bike advocate on campus and beyond — the late Prof. Hugh McQueen — was celebrated with a community bike ride between the SGW and Loyola campuses.Due to wet weather only a few experienced bikers joined us but were warmly met at Loyola by members of the McQueen family. Over vegan snacks made by the Hive Cafe, we all spent the remainder of our time reminiscing about Prof. Hugh McQueen and his love of biking.   Coming to an office near you! Faisal Shennib, our Environmental Coordinator, was on hand to provide information and answer questions on the new Low Waste Office Program rolling out in the next few months in all major buildings across both campuses.Over 105 people signed up to be Low Waste Volunteer and received a free mini-bin for signing up. Interested in being the first to get the updates on the program and help spreading the word? Sign up to be a Low Waste Volunteer today!Information was available on the new upcoming sustainability workshops for Concordia staff and faculty. Concordia employees can register for the Sustainability at Concordia workshop led by Concordia’s Sustainability team at Environmental Health and Safety. On April 22, 2015 over 100 Concordians dropped by the previous Green Space in the Hall Bldg. to learn more about making their daily activities more sustainable right here on campus.
Compost
In 2008, the university was the first in Quebec to acquire an industrial composter, which has since diverted more than 450 tonnes of organic waste. In 2015 the university was sending its compost waste to its waste management service company.E-waste
An e-waste drop off campaign was held for Concordians to bring old electronics to be disposed of safely. Concordia community members also learnt where to appropriately dispose of different types of e-waste on campus. Including what goes into the “Electrobac” bins on both campuses (chargers, cables, small electronics and ink cartridges).Coffee cups
Reusable Concordia coffee cups were given away as the single largest contributor to landfill waste at Concordia is disposable coffee cups — adding sixty tons of waste to landfills each year. But while lids must go in the trash, the cups can now go in the recycling. The best solution, however, is to use a reusable coffee mug!Notebooks
And as part of Concordia’s ongoing campaign to reduce waste, notebooks made from one-sided paper were available.
Concordia strives to becoming a Fair Trade Campus, a certification offered to post-secondary institutions by the Canadian Fair Trade Network. On Earth Day, fair trade coffee and bananas were handed out free of charge at the Green Space.
The Concordia Greenhouse was also on hand, selling their ever-popular greens and mushroom-growing kits.The Concordia Volunteer Abroad Program (now called CEED), a developmental organization that emphasizes experiential learning through volunteerism, held a photo exhibition on their work with the Gulu community. It was a great way to learn about fellow students’ experiences volunteering in AfricaOver 50 respondents for the computer-based survey, developed by the Sustainability Team from Environmental Health and Safety, helped the team gather data on how to guide Concordia’s efforts to become a more sustainable institution of higher education.

The 15 yes or no questions, covered such topics as waste management and purchasing policies. 2 lucky respondents won a basket of surprises from Le Frigo Vert, an environmentally conscious food co-operative run by students, or a bicycle built at Right to Move — a non-profit bike shop located behind the Henry F. Hall Building.The David O'Brien Centre for Sustainable Enterprise (DOCSE) handed out sunflower seedlings on the Sir George Williams Campus on Earth Day.In order to promote sustainability, Earth Day 2014 at Concordia focused on disposable coffee cups as a symbol for the bigger endemic problem of overconsumption in our society.This is especially true considering that coffee cups are the largest single contributor to landfill waste at Concordia University.The use of disposable one-time items, previously considered as symbol of convenience is now seen as wasting valuable resources that end up in large landfills, of which the economic, social, and environmental negative impacts largely outweigh the convenience aspect.Many Concordians were happy to show their support by using a non-disposable coffee mug.
This year, Earth Day was celebrated by promoting the use of reusable coffee mugs. We offered free coffee to anyone bringing their reusable mug. For those without one, we offered to buy new Earth Day customized reusable cups.More than 60 people purchased an Earth Day reusable mug and more than 300 people were reached in a single morning.    Environmental, Health & Safety: 
514-848-2424, ext. 4877514-848-2807
ehs@concordia.ca Staff directoryQuestions, comments or concerns?
Please fill out this formReport an injury or a near-miss
 MSDS/SDS© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityEarth Day4 great activities for Earth Day 2016 Contact usCSA FARMER'S BASKETS
                
            
                
					
                    EARTH DAY RIDE IN HONOUR OF PROF. HUGH MCQUEEN
                
            
                
					
                    LOW WASTE OFFICE PROGRAM
                
            
                
					
                    STAFF AND FACULTY SUSTAINABILITY WORKSHOPS
                
            
                
					2015
                    Earth Day
                
            
                
					2014
                    Earth DayWhat is Earth Day?A buzz of activity for Earth Day 2015Concordia University’s proud supporters of Earth Day 20142014 ResultsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Earth Day in the WorldBasket delivery on campusWhere to find fresh organic veggies on campusWaste
Fair TradeVirtual trip to Gulu, UgandaSustainability SurveySunflower seedlings giveaway