http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/about/community/initiatives/streets-cafe/faqs.htmlAnswers to common questions about Concordia's University of the Streets Café: Both.  Guests may present in one language or the other. If needed, whisper translation can be arranged. Participants are invited to speak in whichever language is most comfortable for them.Everyone.  If you are interested in the theme, willing to listen and learn, and open to sharing your thoughts and experiences as you feel comfortable, then these conversations are for you.  No experience is required!No. You just have to show up! It is best that you come a little early to get settled in (and get a good seat!) before the conversation officially starts.Nothing. Thanks to the support of our volunteers, venues, partnering organizations and Concordia University, we are able to offer all conversations free of charge. No. Reflecting on the conversation is just as important as expressing your views. However, if you have opinions, ideas, thoughts or “half-formed” thoughts that you would like to share, please signal to the moderator that you wish to contribute to the conversation.Conversations are a highly participatory form of learning which prioritizes experience over expertise. By creating an open space for conversation everyone is a learner – even the guest! Each person participating is also an expert and has a chance to share his or her perspectives, thoughts and questions.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFrequently Asked QuestionsAre the conversations in French or English?
                
            
                
					
                    Who is invited to attend?
                
            
                
					
                    Do I need to register?
                
            
                
					
                    How much do these events cost?
                
            
                
					
                    Do I have to speak?
                
            
                
					
                    Why conversations and not lectures?Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424