http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/students/health/patient-resources/flu-vaccine-schedule-2016-2017.htmlThe health professionals at Concordia University Health Services recommend that everyone get the flu shot, every year.Getting the flu shot will reduce your chance of getting the flu or spreading it to others. If you do catch the flu, being vaccinated can make the illness less severe.Even though Concordia's 2016-2017 flu vaccine clinics are finished, it's not too late to get the flu vaccine to protect yourself and your community. Flu season typically peaks between December and February and can last until May. If you have a Québec Medicare (RAMQ) card and meet the criteria for the free shot, you can receive the flu shot at Health Services; drop by any time we're open. Or contact your local community health services as some are offering the flu shot into December and even January.
If you do NOT have a Québec Medicare (RAMQ) card, or do not meet the criteria for the free shot, you can pay to receive the flu shot at many local pharmacies (including Pharmaprix across the street). Check out Pharmaprix's Flu Shot Finder and Jean Coutu's flu shot booking pages to book online. 2016-2017 Vaccine clinic dates:The vaccine is FREE for those who have a Quebec Medicare Card and meet at least one the Department of Public Health's Criteria.  Criteria include:If you do not meet the criteria, the vaccine costs $20, paid in cash only.
The flu shot lowers your risk of getting and spreading the flu. Other strategies that can help you stay healthy include washing your hands, getting plenty of sleep, and eating healthy food. But the flu shot is your best defence against the flu.Learn more about the flu, including how to take care of yourself when you are ill.
Find reliable, evidence-based answers to common vaccine concerns from WebMD and from the Gouvernement du Québec's Health Portal.You and your family can also get the flu shot in the community through your Centre intégré universitaire de santé et de services sociaux (CIUSSS); check out the schedules below. If you don't know which is your CIUSS is, put your postal code in here.
CIUSSS de l’Est-de-l’Île-de-Montréal territory (including Saint-Léonard, Saint-Michel, Anjou, Mercier-Est, Montréal-Est, Pointe-aux-Trembles, Rivière-des-Prairies, Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Mercier-Ouest and Rosemont)CIUSSS de l’Ouest-de-l’Île-de-Montréal (Dorval-Lachine-LaSalle and West Island)CIUSS du Centre-Ouest-de-Montréal (Côte-des-Neiges, NDG, Parc Extension, Westmount, Mount Royal, Quartier Concordia, and Outremont)CIUSSS du Centre-sud-de-l'île-de-Montréal (including Ville-Marie, Plateau-Mont-Royal, Sud-Ouest [including Little Burgandy, Pointe-Saint-Charles, and Saint-Henri] and Verdun)CIUSSS du Nord-de-l'île-de-Montréal (including Ahuntsic, Bordeaux-Cartierville, Saint-Laurent, and Villeray)CIUSSS de Vaudreuil-Soulanges If you have a child and they have a Children's Hospital card, your child and all of your family can receive the flu shot at the Children's Hospital. The vaccine is available here to you and your family even if your child does not have a chronic illness. Monday, October 24th until December 9th from 9:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m (closed 12:00-1:00 p.m and on weekends).Many local pharmacies are offering the flu shot (including Pharmaprix across the street); check out Pharmaprix's Flu Shot Finder and Jean Coutu's flu shot booking pages to book online.
Campus Wellness and Support Services514-848-2424 x3565514-848-28341550 De Maisonneuve W.
 Room GM-200Monday to Friday
 9 a.m. - 5 p.m.*

*Please note that nursing services begin at 10 a.m. on Thursdays.514-848-2424 x3575514-848-45337141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Room AD-131Monday to Friday
 9 a.m. - 11:30 a.m.
 1 p.m. - 4:30 p.m.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFlu Vaccine 2016-2017Student hub
            
                Student hubWhere can my family get the flu shot?Even More Locations
Health ServicesMore information
Related office
Sir George Williams campusLoyola campusConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424