http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/campus-life/food-services/meal-plans/frequently-asked-questions.htmlOnce your Student ID card is activated with your Plans, you must always have your Student ID card with you:All-U-Care-to-EatDining Dollars PlanEach time you buy something with your Dining Dollars, the balance is deducted by the price of the item.Keep your Student ID card safe at all times as you would a debit/credit card.  Please note that if a card is lost or stolen, the cardholder is responsible for all unauthorized charges made until the card is reported as being missing.  If it is lost or stolen, here are some steps to follow:Keep your Student ID card safe at all times as you would a debit/credit card.  Please note that if a card is lost or stolen, the cardholder is responsible for all unauthorized charges made until the card is reported as being missing.  If it is lost or stolen, here are some steps to follow: If you still have questions and would like more information, please send us an email at: Food.Services@concordia.ca  © Concordia UniversityAbout Food Services
Places to eat
Meal plans
 Catering
Eating Responsibly

Contact us
FeedbackConcordia UniversityFrequently Asked QuestionsFood Services
            
                Food ServicesWhat are the Residence Plan Dates?
                
            
                
					
                    Am I required to purchase the Plans?
                
            
                
					
                    Where can I eat on Campus and use my Plans?
                
            
                
					
                    How much does a Residence Plan cost?
                
            
                
					
                    How do I purchase my Residence Plans?
                
            
                
					
                    How do my Plans work on campus?
                
            
                
					
                    What happens if I show up without my Student ID card?
                
            
                
					
                    How do I use my All-U-Care-to-Eat Plan and Dining Dollars Plan?
                
            
                
					
                    How do I keep track of my Dining Dollars?
                
            
                
					
                    What can I do if I run out of Dining Dollars?
                
            
                
					
                    If I have Dining Dollars at the end of the year, do they carry over?
                
            
                
					
                    Can your Plans accommodate me if I have food allergies or dietary preferences?
                
            
                
					
                    Can I share my Plans with a friend or family member?
                
            
                
					
                    Can I bring a guest to the Dining Halls?
                
            
                
					
                    What happens to my Plans if I lose my Student ID card?
                
            
                
					
                    Where can I see your Dining Hall menus?  
                
            
                
					
                    What are the Commuter Plan dates?
                
            
                
					
                    Where can I use my Commuter Plan on Campus?
                
            
                
					
                    How do I purchase my Commuter Plan?
                
            
                
					
                    How does my Commuter Plan work on campus?
                
            
                
					
                    What happens if I show up without my Student ID card?
                
            
                
					
                    How do I keep track of my balance?
                
            
                
					
                    Can I add more money to my Commuter Plan?
                
            
                
					
                    If my Plan has a balance at the end of the semester, does it carry over?
                
            
                
					
                    Can your plan accommodate me if I have food allergies or dietary preferences?
                
            
                
					
                    Can I share my Commuter Plan with a friend or family member?
                
            
                
					
                    Can I bring a guest to the Dining Halls?
                
            
                
					
                    What happens to my Commuter Plan if I lose my Student ID card?
                
            
                
					
                    Where can I see your Dining Hall menus?More questions?Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424