http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/campus-life/safety/general-safety.htmlOur general workplace safety programs aim to ensure that all work, study and research areas at Concordia University adhere to government regulations, industry standards and best practices. Prevention is key and therefore EHS staff work closely with administration, supervisors and faculties to provide the necessary tools for ensuring a safe work environment.  The Asbestos Management Program has been designed to ensure that all asbestos-containing material in University buildings is managed such that the health of maintenance workers and building occupants is safeguarded.This program applies to all buildings and structures owned by Concordia University, to all employees and students of the University and to external organisations including contractors hired by the University who may come into contact with or disturb asbestos containing material in University buildings.Quebec has developed stringent guidelines with respect to friable asbestos-containing materials in buildings.  This is outlined in the "Safety Code for the construction industry" (S-2.1, r.6).  To conform to Quebec Legislation and general recognized standards of practice, the procedures outlined in the program are to be followed by Concordia University supervisors, employees, and contractors performing any type of work on asbestos containing materials.  Over much of the 2008-2009 academic year, the Environmental Health & Safety office has worked closely with Facilities Management to revise the Asbestos Management Program to ensure that no one at Concordia, staff, faculty and students alike, is exposed to any unnecessary risk. This program conforms to all guidelines from the CSST and the Construction Safety Code as they relate to asbestos.The Concordia Asbestos Management Program consists of:The use of asbestos insulation in buildings was banned in Quebec in the early 70's. In buildings constructed after this date, asbestos is not usually found except in vinyl flooring, tiles, seals and gaskets and in special applications. The potential risk in these cases is the release of fibres, which may occur during the installation or removal, cutting, sawing or shaping of these products. The Visual Arts Building, Vanier Library and the Concert Hall fall into this category.In older buildings like the Administration Building and Centennial Buildings at Loyola, and the older Annexes on the SGW Campus, asbestos will normally only be found on pipe and furnace insulation and in the building products described above. Asbestos fireproofing insulation was not often used before 1940.There are, however, Concordia buildings, which do contain asbestos insulation, usually on supporting beams in walls, and ceilings where it was applied as fireproofing. At SGW, the Hall Building contains asbestos insulation. At Loyola, it is found in parts of the Athletic Complex.It is important to know where asbestos is present so that control measures can be taken to prevent the release of fibres into the air during routine maintenance and renovation work, which may expose both the workers and other building occupants. A thorough inventory has been done to ensure that we know what asbestos containing materials were used in the construction of our buildings and where it is located in each.In 1990, the Quebec Government issued new regulations for work with asbestos products, which are included in the Safety Code for the Construction Industry S-2.1, r.6, article 3.23. In 1999, modifications were made to this code, with respect to work liable to emit asbestos fibres. The University is now obliged to follow these regulations whenever any work is being performed either by its own employees or by contractors. Concordia's Ergonomics Program can assist all staff, faculty and students arrange their workspace to enable a safe and effective work environment. The documents and guidelines provided below can help you effectively arrange your work area. If you would like an ergonomic assessment of your workstation, please print and complete the Office Ergonomics Self-Assessment Checklist. Once you have completed the self-assessment and if you are still having issues, simply request an ergonomic assessment from the EHS, follow the procedure at the end of the checklist.Office Ergonomics Manual (English)Office Ergonomics Manual (Francais)Office Ergonomics ReferenceVision, Stress, Workstation GuidelinesOffice Ergonomics Self-Assessment ChecklistLaboratory Ergonomics PosterEnvironmental, Health & Safety: 
514-848-2424, ext. 4877514-848-2807
ehs@concordia.ca Staff directoryQuestions, comments or concerns?
Please fill out this formReport an injury or a near-miss
 MSDS/SDShttp://www.concordia.ca/campus-life/safety/awards.html © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityGeneral safetyContact usAsbestos Management Program
                
            
                
					
                    Concordia Buildings
                
            
                
					
                    Ergonomics Program2016 Sustainability & Safety Champion WinnersConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Click on the link to find out more about this years recipients