http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/campus-life/safety/lab-safety.htmlThe Laboratory Safety Program was established to ensure academic, research and laboratory activities are conducted in compliance with the provincial and federal laws and regulations within a safe work environment. EHS personnel work in collobaration with researchers, faculty, staff and students to ensure the environmental secure management of chemical, biohazardous and radioactive material. EHS has established policies and procedures detailing safe work and research practices, as well as appropriate safety and environmental controls that must be adhered to. Laboratory Safety ManualEHS-SOP-005-Controlled SubstancesWHMIS stands for Workplace Hazardous Materials Information System. It is a Canadian system implemented in 1988, ensuring worker protection through education and prevention. The objectives of the program are to train employees in order to:It also implements standardized labeling of controlled products and makes materials safety data sheets (MSDSs) available. A Controlled Product is the name given to products, materials, and substances that are regulated by WHMIS legislation.WHMIS is governed by federal and provincial laws and regulations. The majority of the "information" requirements (and exemptions) of WHMIS legislation are under the Hazardous Products Act and the Hazardous Materials Information Review Act and apply to all of Canada. In Quebec, the CSST is responsible for applying WHMIS according to the regulations. Any person supplying or using controlled products must comply with it.As such, staff and students that work with, or may be exposed to, hazardous materials must be trained according to WHMIS legislation in the following aspects:EHS provides WHMIS trainings for the staff and students at both Concordia campuses.  Please check the following link to get more details about WHMIS training offered at Concordia:EHS provides WHMIS trainings for the staff and students at both Concordia campuses. WHMIS ClassificationWHMIS divides hazardous materials into six main classes based on their specific hazards.  If a product corresponds to one or more of these classes, it becomes a « controlled » product.When a supplier produces or imports a product for distribution and sale in Canada, that supplier must prepare a supplier label, which will typically provide seven pieces of information:Furthermore, the text must be in English and French and contained within a hatched boarder.Workplace labels are required on containers of controlled products produced on site and on containers in which the product has been transferred from a supplier's container. Workplace labels must provide three types of information:The label requirements for reagents prepared in the laboratory are the following:Additional requirements also include that:Consumer Restricted ProductsIf a consumer can buy a chemical product in Canada through a retail store/outlet network, then that product must meet the requirements of the Consumer Chemicals and Containers Regulations, 2001 (CCCR, 2001), issued under the Hazardous Products Act (HPA). Since these consumer products are available to the public in retail stores, they are partially exempt from the labeling and MSDS requirements of WHMIS. However, if these products are brought and used at the workplace, they must be included within the WHMIS training requirements and must also follow the WHMIS workplace label requirements.Consumer Controlled ProductsEHS highly recommends having MSDS copies available to workers handling chemicals covered under the Consumer Chemicals and Containers Regulations within their regular daily duties.For more information concerning Consumer Products, please refer to the following link:Consumer Chemicals and Containers Regulations - Health CanadaThe Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS) was adopted by the UN Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) in July 2003. The purpose is to regroup all existing hazard communication systems on chemicals in order to develop a single, globally harmonized system to address classification of chemicals according to their hazards and communicate the related information through labels and safety data sheets.In Canada, GHS will not replace WHMIS.  WHMIS will be modified to incorporate the GHS elements. There will be new standardized:On February 11, 2015, the Government of Canada published the Hazardous Products Regulations (HPR), which modified the Workplace Hazardous Materials Information System (WHMIS) 1988 to incorporate the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS) for workplace chemicals. This modified WHMIS is referred to as WHMIS 2015.While WHMIS 2015 includes new harmonized criteria for hazard classification and requirements for labels and safety data sheets (SDS), the roles and responsibilities for suppliers, employers and workers have not changed.To provide Canadian suppliers, employers and workers time to adjust to WHMIS 2015, there is a multi-year transition period in effect where both the current WHMIS version (1988) and WHMIS 2015 systems may be used.EHS is providing training sessions concerning WHMIS 2015.  Please refer to the EHS Training web page for more information.For more information about WHMIS 2015, please refer to the following links:WHMIS 2015-Coming into Force-Questions and AnswersWHMIS 2015 - Health CanadaWHMIS.ORGAdditional information about a controlled or hazardous substance is provided on its Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) or Safety Data Sheet (SDS). The term MSDS is used in the WHMIS 1988 legislation; it is now being replaced by the term SDS in the WHMIS 2015 legislation.  The MSDS/SDS is provided by the supplier with the initial product’s purchase to give users detailed information about the hazards and safe use of products. All MSDSs/SDSs must be accurate at the time of sale or import.A MSDS/SDS mentions what the hazards of a product are, how to use the product safely, what to expect if the recommendations are not followed, how to recognize symptoms of exposure, and what to do if emergencies occur. Before using any product for the first time, students and staff should review the chemical’s MSDS/SDS for more information.Most MSDSs/SDSs have now adopted the WHMIS 2015 format which divides the information into 16 sections (as opposed to the original 9-section format required by WHMIS 1988).Information in a product MSDS should be presented as follows:MSDS/SDS copies should be available to anyone who can come in contact with controlled or hazardous chemicals during their daily work. Employers must make sure that the MSDSs/SDSs provided to their employees are the most accurate (updated) ones available. All MSDS/SDS copies should be kept in a dedicated location for each specific work area (laboratory, workshop, etc.). Employers may also computerize the MSDS/SDS information as long as:Concordia University has a subscription to CHEMWATCH, a MSDS/SDS database, allowing anyone using a Concordia computer or wireless network to access MSDS/SDS data. A direct link to the CHEMWATCH database is available on the EHS webpage. A quick reference guide on how to access a MSDS/SDS from CHEMWATCH is available here.Personal protective equipment (PPE) is necessary to work with most hazardous materials and/or to perform certain experiments. It is a last resort protection system, to be used when substitution or engineering controls are not feasible.  It may also be necessary to supplement the safety equipment in laboratories such as the fume hoods.  PPE does not reduce or eliminate the hazard, protects only the wearer, and does not protect anyone else.PPE includes gloves, eye protection, respiratory protection and protective clothing. The type of PPE required is highly dependent upon the nature of the experiment and the hazards associated with the material being used. However, the minimum requirements for any laboratory work done at Concordia University are the following:Safety GlassesWearing eye and face protection is necessary to protect against splashing chemicals, biological materials and flying particles. Eye protection in the form of glasses, goggles or face shields is available and the choice will depend on the risk involved with the experiment or the type of material being used.  The worker should consult the experiment SOP or the MSDS to choose the right type of protection in accordance with the CSA standard for Industrial Eye and Face Protectors Z94.3-92. The information in the Z94.3.1-02 “Protective Eyewear: A User's Guide” by Canadian Standards Association is also a good source of information or contact your supervisor or EHS.Safety glasses must have side shields and should be worn whenever there is the possibility of objects striking the eye, such as particles, glass, or metal shards. Many potential eye injuries have been avoided by wearing safety glasses.  If prescription glasses are needed to be worn in the laboratory, they should be equipped with side-shields in order to provide extra-protection.  If they are not equipped with side-shields, therefore special safety glasses designed to fit on top of regular prescription glasses have to be worn.However, safety glasses do not provide adequate protection against chemical splashes, aerosols or dusts/powders.  They do not seal to the face, resulting in gaps at the top, bottom and sides, where chemicals may seep through.  If such hazards are present in the laboratory work, goggles are best suited for this type of potential exposure.Chemical Splash GogglesChemical splash goggles should be worn when there is potential for splash from a hazardous material, such as working with solvent and highly corrosive materials.  Chemical splash goggles should be impact resistant and have indirect ventilation so hazardous substances cannot drain into the eye area.  Some can even be worn over prescription glasses.Face ShieldsFace shields are to be used when working with large volumes of hazardous materials, such as highly corrosive substances, either for protection from splash to the face or flying particles. Face shields along do not provide sufficient eye protection; they must be used in conjunction with safety glasses or goggles.Contact LensesProtective ClothingLab coats are required in all laboratories. These are available in various designs and materials and the choice should depend on the type of work being done and the risks involved. The typical lab coat is a knee length cotton-blend with long sleeves and front closure.  Lab coats are appropriate for minor chemical splashes and solids contamination.If highly toxic or corrosive liquids are to be used, rubber aprons and chemical smocks offer improved protection over regular lab coats. Disposable outer garments (i.e., Tyvek suits) may be useful when cleaning and decontamination of reusable clothing is difficult. Long-sleeved and long-legged clothing should be worn beneath the lab coat to protect the skin in case of a spill. For best protection a lab coats should be knee length, have long sleeves to the wrist and be buttoned up.  Shorts and skirts should not be worn when working in a laboratory. Contaminated lab coats should not be washed at home with other laundry. A cleaning service is provided by certain departments.FootwearClosed-toed shoes should be worn at all times in laboratories where chemicals are stored or used.  Sandals, high heel shoes, canvas toed shoes, as well as open-toed and open-backed shoes should be avoided due to the danger of spillage of corrosive or irritating chemicals and broken glass. Chemical resistant overshoes or boots may be used to avoid possible exposure to corrosive chemical or large quantities of solvents or water that might penetrate normal footwear (e.g., during spill cleanup).GlovesSkin contact is a potential source of chemical exposure.  Protective gloves should be used to prevent the potential exposure to chemicals or biological hazards.  The proper type of glove will depend on the materials being used.  The MSDS is an important source of information for proper glove selection.  Different glove types have different chemical permeability, therefore you can check with the manufacturer’s compatibility chart before choosing a specific glove type. Understanding the terms used in glove compatibility charts is primordial.Compatibility charts rating systems will vary by the manufacturer’s design of their chart. Many use a color code, where red = bad, yellow = not recommended, green = good, or some variation of this scheme. A letter code may be used, such as E + excellent, G = Good, P = poor, NR = Not Recommended. Any combination of these schemes may be used, so please understand the chart before making a decision on the glove to be used.The following document includes major glove types and their general uses. This list is not exhaustive.Gloves Types and UsesOther Considerations Latex glovesThe use of latex gloves has been associated with an increased sensitization and the development of allergy symptoms over the last decades. Such symptoms include skin rash and inflammation, respiratory irritation, asthma and shock.  The amount of exposure needed to sensitize an individual to natural rubber latex is not known, but when exposures are reduced, sensitization decreases.  Disposable latex gloves offer poor protection against chemicals and are not recommended to be used in the laboratory environment.  However, if latex gloves must be used, choose reduced-protein, powder-free latex gloves and wash hands with mild soap and water after removing latex gloves.AllergiesAs research facilities have increasingly moved away from latex exam gloves because of their well-known allergy-related symptoms, other types of skin irritation and allergy to non-latex gloves have also increased. Some people can potentially develop an allergic contact dermatitis with the use of nitrile gloves, mainly caused by chemical accelerators used in the production of nitrile and other latex-free gloves. While vinyl gloves may be an option in some circumstances, they lack the elastic quality of nitrile and latex gloves, and do not provide the same level of protection. Alternative glove options are available from different suppliers against nitrile and latex allergies such as:Hazardous materials are the responsibility of all those involved in the life cycle of the materials, from the beginning until the end. The goal of the University is to ensure that individuals working in areas where hazardous materials are used or stored are regularly informed and updated about risks, and  avoid the acquisition of unnecessary stock.  Keeping an inventory of hazardous materials is necessary to know what materials  are already present in a laboratory and what is required.  The inventory technician barcodes all hazardous materials and enters them in Vertére.  Vertére is a website from HECHMET (Higher Education Co-operative for Hazardous Materials and Equipment Tracking). The EHS inventory technicians perform on-site updates to every laboratories inventory annually. The inventory technicians enter new hazardous material into the database, scan all barcodes on existing bottles and containers, and remove consumed, missing or relocated materials from the database. Once the inventory process is completed, the Principal Investigator (PI)  receives an updated list of their hazardous materials. All PI's are assigned a user name and password to view their chemical inventory in Vertére. For questions or assistance please contact:Enviromental Health & Safety (EHS) conducts laboratory safety inspections throughout the research and teaching laboratories in conjunction with the departmental safety officers. These inspections provide a snapshot of laboratory safety and compliance.Reports are sent to the Principal Investigator (PI) and provides a list of unsafe or unhealthy conditions identified during the inspection. The PI's and researchers are required to sign the receipt acknowledgement form confirming the inspection findings and return it to EHS.The PI's and researchers are asked to respond to EHS, in writing, within 30 days of the inspection, to indicate how each item has been corrected or indicating a reason or target date for items that could not be corrected. A follow-up inspection by the EHS team may follow.EHS remains available to provide the necessary support:The Transportation of Dangerous Goods (TDG) is an area under strict regulations in Quebec and Canada. The objective of this regulation is to promote safety in the transportation of dangerous goods by road, rail, sea or air. Anyone who ships, transports or delivers, receives, handles or writes up transportation documentation dangerous goods must follow a TDG formation given by EHS in order to obtain a TDG certificate.EHS provides the following TDG trainings:Please check the following link to get more details about EHS training offered at Concordia.Transport between buildingsUnless the specified substance is exempt or is present in a limited quantity, any transportation of hazardous material by road vehicle between buildings or campuses related to University activities must be done following the requirements of the TDG regulations.The TDG classification must include the following information in this order:The dangerous good are separated into 9 classes according to the type of hazard they represent:Public transportation (STM or shuttle bus) must not be used for the transportation of hazardous materials between campuses. To ship dangerous goods between campuses, please make arrangements with Distribution Services.Transport within buildingsFor more information and documentation about Transportation of Dangerous Goods, please refer to the following links: Concordia University is registered with the Controlled Goods Directorate, which is a Federal Government Program administered by the Department of Public Works and Government Services Canada  and legislated by the Defence Production Act and the Controlled Goods Regulations. This program regulates and controls the examination, possession, and transfer in Canada of Controlled Goods and/or Controlled Technology. These are defined as belonging to Group 2 (munitions designed or modified for military use), Group 5 (item 5504: global navigation, ground control stations, nuclear weapon design and testing) and Group 6 (missile technology) of the Export Control List , published by International Trade Canada.Researchers whose projects involve Controlled Goods or Technology must obtain security clearance and training for every individual involved from the Concordia University Designated Official (DO), Pietro Gasparrini. Canadian citizens or permanent residents normally resident in Canada will have security assessments completed by the DO after submitting a consent form and Application for Security Assessment. Those who are not Canadian citizens or permanent residents ordinarily resident in Canada receiving a salary from Concordia University (temporary workers) or not receiving remuneration from the University (visitors) will have a security assessments application submitted on their behalf by the DO, followed by an assessment undertaken by the CGD.Please note that depending on citizenship and country of origin, security assessments may take considerable time or may not be possible.

Permission to possess or access specific Controlled Goods or Technologies in identified locations will only be granted following security clearance and approval by the DO of a security plan which will ensure that unauthorized individuals do not have access to these items.

For further information, applications, and consent forms, please contact the Designated Official.Concordia University has a licence with the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) under the Excise Act, 2001 that enables researchers to purchase ethyl alcohol of undenatured grade from Canadian suppliers without having to pay excise duty (approximately 11.69$/litre). This licence dictates mandatory practices concerning storage, usage and disposal.
While these conditions are managed by the Chemical Store at the Loyola campus, research groups located on the SGW campus must show compliance with these mandatory practices. EHS has developed an internal Standard Operating Procedure for the use of non-duty-paid ethyl alcohol of undenatured grade (EHS-SOP-006).
Any Concordia University Principal Investigator (PI), faculty or staff member wishing to purchase ethyl alcohol of undenatured grade for research purposes from an external supplier must contact EHS prior to doing so.
Failure to comply with these requirements could result in the loss of the University’s licence from the CRA, resulting in the requirement to pay the excise tax duty on ethanol of undenatured grade.
 Certificate of Equipment DecommissioningEnvironmental, Health & Safety: 
514-848-2424, ext. 4877514-848-2807
ehs@concordia.ca Staff directoryQuestions, comments or concerns?
Please fill out this formReport an injury or a near-miss
 MSDS/SDS© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityLaboratory safety programsEye ProtectionContact usLaboratory Safety Manual & SOPs
                
            
                
					
                    Workplace Hazardous Materials Information System (WHMIS-1988)
                
            
                
					
                    WHMIS 2015 and the Globally Harmonized System (GHS)
                
            
                
					
                    Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS)/ Safety Data Sheet (SDS)
                
            
                
					
                    Laboratory Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)
                
            
                
					
                    Hazardous Materials Inventory Program
                
            
                
					
                    Laboratory Inspection Program
                
            
                
					
                    Transportation of Dangerous Goods (TDG)
                
            
                
					
                    Controlled Goods Program
                
            
                
					
                    Non-Duty-Paid Ethyl Alcohol of Undenatured Grade
                
            
                
					
                    Laboratory Decommission
                
            
                
					
                    Accordion panel headerLabellingConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424