http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2016/09/14/my-study-spot-a-guide-to-campus-spaces.html
As anyone who’s had to wade through pages of academic text can attest, a good, quiet spot for studying can make all the difference. That’s why we’ve drawn up a list of special spaces with Concordia’s diverse student community in mind.Whether you’re a business student looking to try out industry tools, an engineering student working on your Capstone project, or a student parent with your children in tow, here are some campus areas that might be just right for when you need to hunker down and hit the books.Located on the 4th floor of the Simone de Beauvoir Institute, Simone’s Library offers a supportive atmosphere, with a staff librarian always on hand to help students with their work.  It’s a quiet study space that houses more than 2,200 books, primarily of the non-fiction, social science variety. It’s also a great place to connect with others interested in feminism and social justice.Open to anyone looking for a soothing study area, the Father Thomas McEntee Reading Room (Room 1001.01, Henry F. Hall Building) is a sanctuary replete with hundreds of books on Ireland. The diverse collection includes early 20th-century curiosities, such as Dublin telephone directories. The space is open to all students during the day. A schedule indicating when the room is booked is posted on the door.The basement lounge (SP SI-S132) of the Richard J. Renaud Science Complex is the only place on or near the Loyola Campus where you can find a Tim Hortons. That’s significant, given that affordable coffee is the lifeblood of most university students.The space is relatively quiet and well set up for study sessions, offering a mix of larger and smaller tables with plenty of seating. As a perk, large windows that extend halfway down the area's wall, let in a good amount of natural sunlight. The R.O. WILLS Computer Lab, more commonly referred to as the CASA lab, is available exclusively to undergraduate business students.Its many computers are set up with Microsoft Office Suite and other software used for courses in the commerce program. Students also have access to high-quality laser colour printers on a fee-per-use basis.To gain entry to the room, bring proof of enrolment and your Concordia student ID card to the CASA offices of the John Molson School of Business (MB) Building (Room MB 4.106) and you’ll be issued an access card.Monitors are always present and can help you with any technical issues that may arise.On the 12th floor of the MB you’ll find the unique John Dobson — Formula Growth Investment Room (Room MB 12.254), or the MB Trading Lab. With 10 Bloomberg Terminals, 17 databases and 26 regular PCs, it’s an ideal space for student researchers.Registered finance students are welcome to visit the lab during opening hours to familiarize themselves with industry tools and live financial software.With programs that allow you to create your own models and run your own portfolios, the trading lab is a resource intended to give finance students a competitive edge by equipping them with a practical knowledge of the markets.A lab monitor is on duty at all times to assist with any questions you might have. Need a place to work on your video and sound projects? The Centre For Digital Arts (CDA) offers 11 private editing suites for just that.Dedicated to providing computer and audiovisual services to Fine Arts faculty, staff and students, the CDA offers a myriad of video and sound facilities. All of its 145 Macs are installed with the latest editing software — this means better graphic cards, more RAM and near-field sound monitors.Moreover, students with CDA memberships can use the centre’s multichannel audio studio, which is available for voice, foley and small-instrument recording (Engineering, Computer Science and Visual Arts Integrated Complex, Room EV 5.615).Technical help is always available should you have any questions. Get your CDA membership today. You don’t need to be a Capstone student in order to access the Capstone Projects and Study area.The space (Room H 961, Henry F. Hall Building) contains approximately 20 project rooms, each with a computer and two to three large desks, and a couple of larger meeting rooms. While priority is given to those working on capstone projects, any student in the faculty of engineering and computer sciences can reserve these rooms.Reservations are made online or through a sheet on the bulletin board just down the hallway from the entry door. However, during the weekends and evenings the area is less supervised and capstone and non-capstone students are allowed to enter at will using an appointed access code.Learn how access and reserve rooms in the Capstone Projects and Study area. While thesis writing is a crucial period in a graduate student’s academic journey, it can also be an isolating experience for many. Because Concordia knows it’s important to support its grad students both intellectually and psychologically during this time, the Webster Library offers three dissertation writers’ rooms.Located on the fifth floor, this area also has shelving and lockers for belongings and a lounge to help break that sense of isolation during marathon writing and research sessions.Graduate students on Loyola Campus can also use the Vanier Library’s graduate study rooms, located on the third floor.These areas are reserved for graduate students. You can enter them by scanning your student ID at the front door or using a valid access code.Learn more about resources and facilities set up just for graduate students. If you’re a student parent in need of a child-friendly study zone, the Concordia University Student Parents Centre (CUSP) offers just that.The centre’s lounge (Room 24, Toronto-Dominion Building, 1410 Guy Street) gives student parents access to computers, a baby nursery and a space to relax, study and enjoy coffee and snacks. Designed with both parents and their children in mind, students can use their laptop or a shared desktop computer while their kids enjoy a play area equipped with toys, books, games, and more.The CUSP is open from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., Monday to Friday. Want a study space that has the feel of a professional conference room? Look no further than the Webster and Vanier Libraries.The Webster library boasts 11 group study rooms on the third, fourth and fifth floors that offer all the amenities needed for a great collaborative work experience — from a large table, six chairs and a 46” LCD screen with wired and wireless connections, to a wide-angle USB camera and multiple power outlets.The Vanier Library also has nine study rooms located on the third floor, four of which offer digital collaboration technologies, including a 46" LCD screen with wired ports (HDMI, DisplayPort) and multiple power outlets.Book a group study room today. An oasis in Montreal’s winter, the Concordia greenhouse has several tables set up for studying.Sit down, relax and pour yourself a cup of tea — there’s a kettle available for boiling water —and put those finishing touches on a paper amid the greenery.Located on the 13th floor of the Henry F. Hall Building, the greenhouse is open from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. Grey Nuns Reading RoomIf you need silence to concentrate, the Grey Nuns Reading Room is for you.Just a five-minute walk from the Webster Library, the beautiful and newly-renovated chapel space operates on a strict no-talking rule, so it’s an ideal place to get down to business. The Reading Room seats 192, but you can also reserve one of 14 group study rooms.The Reading Room can be found at 1190 Guy St., and group study rooms are open from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Thursday, and until 6 p.m. on Fridays. It’s open on weekends as well from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.Want a seat with a view? No problem. Take the elevator up to the 11th floor of the Engineering, Computer Science and Visual Arts (EV) Integrated Complex, and there you’ll find a cozy lounge and terrace area.This airy space includes comfy red couches, large wooden tables, a built-in bar with stools and floor-length windows that offer a magnificent panoramic view of the Montreal skyline.It should be noted that access to the terrace is only permitted when a security guard is present. Ask your department if there's a study group to join, or make your own, and start enjoying these productive spaces! 
        13 essential tips for exam success
    
        A campus guide for the Concordia foodie
    
        5 secrets to smart eating at exam time
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia University79 superb study spots at ConcordiaNews
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsLatest storiesMost popularOPINION: Big Pharma’s troubles are good news for innovationConcordia receives funding for 5 Canada Research ChairsThe fight against fake newsConcordia receives $2 million to advance smart-grid technology‘Student success is more gratifying than any prize’13 essential tips for exam successTo nap or not to nap? Sleep tips for ConcordiansJason Camlot wins the Donald Gray Prize for best Victorian Studies essay‘We are conducting research in a living lab’What's it like to meet  the Oracle of Omaha?Faculty of Arts & ScienceJohn Molson School of BusinessFaculty of Fine ArtsFaculty of Engineering & Computer ScienceGraduate StudentsStudent ParentsGeneral Study SpotsFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Simone’s Library
Father Thomas McEntee Reading Room
SP basement lounge
CASA Lab
The MB trading lab
Centre For Digital Arts
Capstone Rooms
Dissertation Writers’ Rooms
CUSP Lounge
Decked out group study rooms on both campusesThe Concordia Greenhouse
EV Lounge and Terrace