http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/offices/oce/oce-staff.htmlCharmaine is responsible for leading the Office of Community Engagement in its mandate to support and promote community-engaged scholarship, community-based research and community-engaged learning at Concordia. Charmaine is an experienced university administrator, having led admissions and recruitment for two professional programs at McGill University. As a first-generation university attendee and a lawyer by training, Charmaine has a particular interest in dismantling unnecessary barriers to higher education for marginalized populations.

She holds a BA in English Literature and a BCL (civil law) and LLB (common law) from McGill University. When not at work, Charmaine is an active member of the boards of a Montreal-based dance company and an international human rights organization.

Phone: 514-848-2424 ext 4863
Email: Charmaine.Lyn@concordia.caSusan puts her skills in organizing, connecting and communicating to work in her role as Community Relations Coordinator for the Office of Community Engagement. In her role, she is responsible for planning events, serving on committees and cultivating relationships in order to foster a culture that supports genuine and reciprocal community-university partnerships.
Previously, and in her first 3 years working at Concordia, Susan coordinated over 75 community-driven events, launched the quarterly video series, “Spotlight on Community Engagement”, and helped spread the word about all of Concordia’s innovative community engagement initiatives through social media, e-newsletters and good old-fashioned network building. A graduate of Concordia’s MA in Media Studies program, when she’s not at work, you can often find Susan thinking, talking and writing about the impact of digital media, questions of identity and what it takes to build meaningful community.
Phone: 514-848-2424 ext 4803
Email: Susan.Edey@concordia.caAlex is responsible for communications strategy and implementation at the Office of Community Engagement and runs the University of the Streets Café, a program he has been involved in as moderator for nearly ten years.He holds an MA in Educational Studies (Concordia University) and his research is on technological literacy in autonomous communities of practice. He is certified in conflict management and in personal and professional coaching both through the Center for Human Relations and Community Studies at Concordia. He comes to the Office of Community Engagement with significant experience in both the non-profit and academic sectors.  Phone: 514-848-2424 ext 4893
Email: alex.megelas@concordia.caEmma is an artist and educator who also collaborates on curatorial projects and events. She holds a BFA from Lebanese University and is currently pursuing her graduate studies in the department of Fine Arts with a specialization in Art Education at Concordia University.  Her research interests include autobiographical and art-based inquiries, memory work, and oral history. Emma has worked extensively in the non-profit sector and locates her teaching within community-based practices.514-848-2424 ext. 4803communityengagement
 @concordia.caOur staffOffice of Community Engagement
1550 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W
GM-801
Montreal, QC  H3G 1N2Sign up for our e-newsletterCurrent issue:Check our past issues:© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityOur staffContact usKeep in touchJoin the conversationLocationSenior Director of the Office of Community Engagement – 
Charmaine Lyn
Community Relations Coordinator – 
Susan Edey
Program and Communications Coordinator –
Alex MegelasEvents and Promotions Assistant –
Emma Harake
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424