http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/students/health/topics/physical-activity.html Regular physical activity is one of the most important things you can do to enhance and maintain optimal health.     This section summarizes the most important information you need to know about physical activity.  For more information consult the "For Those Who Want to Know More" section below.
Physical activity is body movement that challenges you, increases your heart rate and breathing, and makes your muscles exert effort. The ultimate goal of regular physical activity is to increase your strength and stamina, so that you can enjoy your life more, and be able to do the things you want to do!
Aerobic activitiesThese activities increase your breathing and heart rate.  They challenge your cardio-vascular system.  They include: Strength activities
These activities increase or maintain muscle strength.  They include:Mayo Clinic and the Centers for Disease Control both offer good video collections showing you how to do muscle strengthening exercises properly.The truth about building muscle

Flexibility activitiesThese are activities that elongate---stretch---muscles and tendons.  They include: Some sources now list balance exercises as another important type of physical activity, particularly for older adults.
You can find an in-depth discussion of the benefits of physical activity from the Physical Activity Guidelines Advisory Committee. They reviewed and evaluated thousands of research studies. Some of their findings on the health benefits of physical activity include:Other benefits include:The ultimate goal of regular physical activity is to increase your strength and stamina, so that you can enjoy your life more, and be able to do the things you want to do!Many Canadians are more inactive than they realize. Canadian adults sit for most of their waking hours:Long periods of sitting raise your risk of illness. Even among people who get enough regular exercise, if they spend too much time sitting, it has negative impacts on their health.
Along with engaging in 150 minutes of moderate-to-vigerous physical activity every week, it's also important to move more throughout your day. Even light activity can have a positive impact on wellbeing and mortality. The latest Canadian physical activity guidelines include suggestions for limiting sedentary behaviour, or sitting. Since there aren't any Sedentary Guidelines for grownups yet, take a look at the ones for teenagers, and go from there:Simple ideas to "move more" include:Your personal efforts to adopt healthy behaviours are made easier or harder by forces within your community. The economic and social conditions that influence the health of people and communities are called the Social Determinants of Health.To learn more, see Physical activity and the "Social Determinants of health".
The Canadian Physical Activity and Sedentary Behaviour Guidelines Handbook can tell you more! It has specific examples of what regular physical activity can look like in different people’s lives, depending on their age, health, and life circumstances. The website also has log sheets for tracking your physical activity.The Mayo Clinic website offers a good overview of the basics of physical activity.Read some encouraging success stories of how different people with different lives and responsibilities successfully include physical activity into their lives.  Campus Wellness and Support Services514-848-2424 x3565514-848-28341550 De Maisonneuve W.
 Room GM-200Monday to Friday
 9 a.m. - 5 p.m.*

*Please note that nursing services begin at 10 a.m. on Thursdays.514-848-2424 x3575514-848-45337141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Room AD-131Monday to Friday
 9 a.m. - 11:30 a.m.
 1 p.m. - 4:30 p.m.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityPhysical ActivityStudent hub
            
                Student hub
            5 Things Everyone Should KnowThe BasicsWhat about society's role?
For Those Who Want to Know MoreWhat is physical activity?
                
            
                
					
                    What are the types of physical activity?
                
            
                
					
                    What are the benefits of physical activity?
                
            
                
					
                    Inactivity: We are SITTING too much!
                
            
                
					
                    What are the recommendations for physical activity?
                
            Health ServicesMore information
Related office
Sir George Williams campusLoyola campusConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424