http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2013/06/04/rising-stars-share-tips-for-success.htmlCuriosity, motivation, an open mind, a drive to excel academically, and a passion for helping others: These are the traits shared by the three valedictorians representing the Faculty of Arts and Science’s undergraduate programs at the spring convocation.

An aptitude for activism
Sofia Guerrieri likes to be involved in activities that require listening, understanding different viewpoints, building community and working towards a common goal. That’s a good thing since Guerrieri, who is graduating with a specialization in women’s studies, aspires to work in the humanitarian field — though she’s not sure yet in what exact capacity.
“I would need to be front line, to see and feel any changes,” says Guerrieri. “Because of the focus of my activist work, I see myself working primarily with women, queer communities or youth.”

Since moving to Montreal three years ago to attend Concordia, Guerrieri has served on the Tribunal Hearing Pool in Concordia’s Office of Student Tribunals, heard cases involving Academic Code of Conduct charges and volunteered with the Social Justice Committee of Montreal, an independent human rights organization. At the same time, she’s maintained grades that have kept her on the Dean’s List.

“The biggest thing I will take from my experience at Concordia, from my activities and studies, is meeting so many different people who have inspired me to think differently,” Guerrieri says. “By being active in different fields, I was able to keep my mind open to different points of view.”

She plans to continue with graduate studies at some point. But for now, the Italian-born social activist wants to focus on improving her French: Guerrieri intends to apply to stay in Quebec through the Programme de l’expérience québécoise.

Volunteer par excellence
While her professors enriched her academic knowledge, Sophie Kräuchi credits her fellow students with inspiring her during her undergraduate years.

“Concordia’s dynamic institution stems from the passions of its students and this is what has really helped me to flourish,” says the new BA with Honours in Sociology graduate.

Kräuchi, who will continue with master’s studies in international development in her Swiss hometown’s University of Geneva, only got involved in student life after her first year left her feeling there was more to university than attending class and doing homework.

Two events then unleashed her potential. The first was an invitation to join Concordia’s chapter of the Golden Key International Honour Society, which led to her serving on the executive team. The second event was a trip to Ecuador with United to Benefit Ecuadorian Children, International, an organization that helps children and youth build a better future for themselves.

“I came to understand, in the famous words of anthropologist Margaret Mead, ‘that a small group of thoughtful, committed citizens can change the world,’ ” Kräuchi writes in an email.

Since then, she has been involved with the Casa Cares annual charity fashion show, the Sociology and Anthropology Students’ Association, Humanitarian Awareness Concordia University, and in developing the Concordia chapter of World University Service of Canada.

Her efforts were recognized in April with Concordia’s Arts and Science Federation of Associations’ Outstanding Contribution to Student Life Award.

“Finding equilibrium between studies, work and socializing is tough, but adding the volunteering aspect was key,” says Kräuchi. “Giving back doesn’t need to be time-consuming or expensive. It just needs to be meaningful.”

Being in the moment
Sevan Mattie recalls the most important moment of his time at Concordia. It happened during an English course in his first term, when the professor told the class to notice things actively. For Mattie, this concentrated focus allowed him to question more deeply.

“That advice changed how I learned,” says Mattie, a native of Iraq who is graduating with a BSc with Honours in Biology — and two articles published in scientific journals, Yeast and Aging.

Particularly interested in how we grow older, he’s been researching mitochondria and its role in the aging process. He received an undergraduate research award from the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada as well as a training award from the Fonds de recherche en santé du Quebec, among others, to help advance his studies.

He’s also a member of the Concordia Science College and, with a 4.22 GPA, of the Golden Key International Honour Society.

At Concordia, Mattie has been particularly impressed by the level of interaction between students and professors, calling this “one of the qualities at which Concordia excels. You’re not lost in an ocean of students.”

This fall, Mattie, who also volunteers at the Jewish General Hospital’s pathology department, will begin his master’s in the Integrated Program in Neuroscience at McGill University. After that, he’s considering pursuing either a PhD or possibly a double medical-philosophical doctorate.

His experience at Concordia will serve him well into this future. “I learned how to deal with stress, how to interact with others, how to study; it wasn’t all academic.”

Related links:
•    Office of Student Tribunals
•    Simone de Beauvoir Institute
•    Golden Key International Honour Society 
•    Humanitarian Awareness Concordia University
•    Department of Anthropology and Sociology 
•    Department of Biology
Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityRising stars share tips for successNews
            
                News
            Related TopicsFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424