http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/campus-life/food-services/eating-responsibly/sustainable-eating.htmlConcordia works closely with Aramark, the university’s contracted food services provider, as well as with on-campus student initiatives and student-run food services, to identify local purchasing opportunities and to develop sustainable procurement strategies to meet them.Local and sustainable food procurement. Concordia University has ambitious targets regarding local and sustainable sourcing:Local Food Days. On Local Food Days, organized once a month in Concordia’s dining halls, the menu is developed around a theme which showcases local products.Fair Trade Campus. In 2016, Concordia University aims to be recognized as a Fair Trade Campus. The Fair Trade Campus is a program of Fairtrade Canada that recognizes leadership in social sustainability.

Reuse. Cooking oil is sold or donated for biofuel use.Recycling and composting. Concordia University aims to meet an overall rate of 70% waste diversion. Composting organics from kitchens are is a large component of this diversion strategy.Bottle free campus. Bottled water is no longer sold in the vending machines and at the dining services. Water jugs are available in the dining areas and at catered events.“Lug-a-mug” program. Discount coffee prices are provided to the clients who bring their own mug.Bulk condiments. Bulk condiments are provided in the dining halls and in many cafés.Trayless dining. Our clientele do not utilize trays to transport their plates. Trayless dining reduces excess food waste, water and detergent use.Environmentally Preferable Packaging. Retail locations feature:Non recyclables and plastic 6 are restricted.Aramark is currently collaborating with the Environmental Health & Safety department to develop educational materials for waste stations and launch promotions to encourage sustainable practices.

Concordia has strict guidelines and standards regarding the use of non-toxic cleaning products. EcoLogo products are prioritized.All vending machines are certified Energy Star.Concordia Food Services strives to fulfill the dietary requirements and preferences of their varied clientele. A daily selection of vegan and vegetarian options are available in dining halls and retail locations. The Green Beet which is located on the 4th floor of the Hall building exclusively features vegan and vegetarian options. To further promote the environmental benefits of eating lower on the food chain, Meatless Mondays features specialty vegan and vegetarian dishes.  Best efforts are made to offer culturally diverse menus featuring traditional favorites, ethnic dishes and international flavors, including Halal and Kosher certified ingredients when possible. To meet the needs of individuals with allergies and dietary restrictions menus include no lactose, and no gluten options. August 2016, it is official! Concordia University is a Fair Trade Campus. Read more about Concordia and Fair Trade. What are the benefits of Fair Trade?Economic impact:Environmental impact:Social impact:In 2014, Concordia University received funding from the J.W. McConnell Foundation’s Institutional Food Fund to create a two-year contract position called the Sustainable Food System Coordinator. This fund aims to support institutions’ efforts to improve their procurement practices and supply chain relationships in order to serve healthy, local and sustainable food in their dining halls and eateries. The Sustainable Food System Coordinator is in charge of identifying local food purchasing needs and opportunities, and developing constructive and collaborative relationships with contracted food service providers, local food suppliers and on-campus food initiatives.For more information, please contact our Sustainable Food System Coordinator, Isabelle Mailhot-Leduc, at Isabelle.m-leduc@concordia.ca.Aramark, Concordia's food service provider, is committed to making environmentally responsible decisions throughout its operations in order to minimize its footprint while still providing quality food and service.In partnership with the campus community, the following are sustainability initiatives in place throughout our dining locations.Find out more about Aramark's Concordia sustainability goals below, or visit their site to read about Green Thread and Green Stakes, their company wide programs.  Sustainable Food: Across the globe there is a growing awareness of what it means to eat sustainably, and an understanding that food matters - to our own health, as well as the health of our communities, our environment and our planet. Throughout our dining services, we are committed to provide foods that are produced and procured in an ecologically, environmentally and socially responsible manner, and are partnering with many different growers, producers, suppliers and distributors to increase the availability of such foods.
 
 Initiatives - 4 key Areas:
 
 Purchasing and providing:Initiatives – Examples
 
 “I eat local”“I eat sustainable”“I woke up”Each and everyday, we consider the environmental impacts of our purchasing practices and how we operate our business. We partner with suppliers, customers and environmental experts to understand the impacts of available products on the environment and our communities and to identify better alternatives.
 
 Initiatives - 4 key Areas:
 
 Greening of:Initiatives – Examples
 
 Disposable Packaging, “I handle with care”Paper Products, “I recycle, I renew”Cleaning Products, “I came clean”Source Packaging, “I reduce”Throughout our dining services we are committed to minimizing our environmental footprint by promoting and practicing waste reduction, reuse and recycling, with an emphasis on reduction.
 
 Comprehensive Waste Management Strategies include:Energy & Water Conservation: We are committed to partnering with our clients and customers to bring a wide range of energy and water conservation programs to our dining services. Examples of Initiatives include:
 
 TrainingTray-less DiningExamples of Initiatives include:
 
Raising Awareness & Making it Fun!
 
 Food is a great vehicle for education, and a fantastic medium for generating excitement and awareness around health and sustainability issues. As we strive to provide more responsible food services, we hope that everyone can feel great about eating with us, and gain a better understanding of how our food choices impact our own health, as well as the health of our environment, our communities and our planet.
 
 Initiatives include:© Concordia UniversityAbout Food Services
Places to eat
Meal plans
 Catering
Eating Responsibly

Contact us
FeedbackConcordia UniversitySustainable eatingFood Services
            
                Food Services
            Our top sustainability commitmentsRead about Aramark's commitment to sustainabilityFood
                
            
                
					
                    Waste
                
            
                
					
                    Cleaning products
                
            
                
					
                    Energy efficiency
                
            
                
					
                    Food diversity
                
            
                
					
                    Fair Trade
                
            
                
					
                    Sustainable Food System Coordinator
                
            
                
					
                    Sustainable food
                
            
                
					
                    Responsible procurement
                
            
                
					
                    Waste managementConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424