http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/campus-life/food-services/eating-responsibly/sustainable-eating/sustainable-foodsystemscoordinator.htmlConcordia is committeed to ensuring its students have access to more healthy, local and sustainable food choices on campus. There are already many different people doing amazing things on campus, but we're looking at how to transition Concordia to to a localized and sustainable food system. To do this, many different arms of the university must come together: Hospitality Concordia, the Department of Environmental Healthy and Safety, our food services provider Aramark and student organizations. Here's just a taster of what we're doing:  In 2014, Concordia University received the J.W. McConnell Foundation’s Institutional Food Fund to hire a Sustainable Food System Coordinator. This fund aims to support institutions’ efforts to improve their procurement practices and supply chain relationships in order to serve healthy, local and sustainable food in their dining halls and eateries. The Sustainable Food System Coordinator is in charge of identifying local food purchasing needs and opportunities, and developing constructive and collaborative relationships with contracted food service providers, local food suppliers, on-campus food initiatives and academic units.For more information, please contact our Sustainable Food System Coordinator, Isabelle Mailhot-Leduc, at Isabelle.m-leduc@concordia.ca.Read more about the grant that funds this position. 
 The following groups are actively involved in sustainable food systems at Concordia:Concordia Food Coalition
 The Concordia Food Coalition (also known as Community Food Coalition/ CFC) is a non-for-profit student-run organization concerned about the economic, ecological, and social implications of the food system at Concordia University. The CFC brings together students, faculty and staff to promote and facilitate a transition to a more sustainable food system at Concordia.Concordia Greenhouse
 The Concordia Greenhouse Project is a collectively run, consensus-based, non-profit organization. It uses the Henry H. Hall Building rooftop greenhouse as an all-organic space geared towards community, education and sustainable horticulture. The Greenhouse is a year-round green space that hosts workshops, projects and events raising awareness around food issues and alternatives to mainstream consumerism.City Farm School
 The City Farm School is an initiative to develop partnerships and expertise in urban agriculture on the island of Montréal. With the support of Concordia University, The City Farm School (CFS) offers seminars, discussions, internship placements, volunteer opportunities and popular education style teach-ins on permaculture, organic crop planning, producing seedlings, mushroom cultivation, composting, pest management, organic plant nutrition, rain water harvesting, and other topics of great public interest, promoting a strong focus on experiential learning and the cultivation of a can-do spirit.People’s Potato
 The People's Potato is a collectively-run soup kitchen that offers vegan meals to students and community members on a by-donation basis. The Potato serves more than 400 meals daily to students and community members with the help of dedicated volunteers and it is dedicated to educating about healthy cooking and food politics.Le Frigo Vert
Frigo Vert is Concordia’s student non-profit health food store. It offers a variety of organic and bulk foods, as well as quick snacks, coffee and environmentally friendly household products at affordable prices.
Sustainable Concordia Dish Project
 The R4 Dish Project (R4DP) offers reusable tableware as a responsible alternative to disposable items. This sustainability initiative provides groups and individual members of both the Concordia and Montreal communities the opportunity to borrow reusable tableware for events such as conferences, meetings, and other gatherings. Clients of the R4DP help reduce consumption and the amount of disposable dishware sent to our landfills.© Concordia UniversityAbout Food Services
Places to eat
Meal plans
 Catering
Eating Responsibly

Contact us
FeedbackConcordia UniversitySustainable food at ConcordiaFood Services
            
                Food ServicesSustainable Food System CoordinatorUniversity-wide sustainable food initiativesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424