http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/campus-life/sustainability/transportation.htmlAs Concordians, we have many of options when it comes to getting to and from the university.November 2016 - Concordia is proud to have received a silver certification from Vélo Quebec's Vélosympathique Certification for our biking facilities on the downtown campus. Check out the list of our facilities below.Learn more about the Vélosympathique CertificationCycling is a popular way to get to class and work for many Concordians. Cycling is great for your health, traffic reduction and tackling climate change. At Concordia we are privileged to have access to the city's major bike lanes for both campuses. To support the casual to the avid biker we have several resources available to offer.Protect your bicycle from the elements and from thieves.CLICK HERE for more information. The Abandoned Bike Procedure has been implemented at Concordia to reduce the amount of abandoned bicycles on campus. The Abandoned, Lost, and Forgotten Movable Bicycle Procedure aims to ensure that bicycle parking spaces are available to active cyclists.Campus bicycle parking facilities are limited and designed for temporary parking of bicycles in active use, and not for long-term storage. Abandoned bicycles reduce the number of parking spaces available to active cyclists and can cause safety, accessibility, and aesthetic issues.Any bicycle considered to be an Abandoned Bicycle will be impounded in order to maintain adequate, safe, and accessible bicycle parking. All removed bicycles will remain in storage for a period of 90 days, during which time they may be claimed by their owner. Should a bicycle not be claimed within the 90 days allotted, it will be donated or recycled.Bicycle sweeps will take place approximately three times a year.Read the complete Abandoned Bicycle Procedure (PDF - 256 KB)IMPORTANT:If your bike has been tagged or removed,
please visit a Concordia Security Desk or call 514-848-2424, 3717   Don’t have a bike, no problem. BIXI is here to help. BIXI is a point to point bike sharing service. Pick up a bike at station A and drop it off at station B.GROUP DISCOUNT FOR ALL CONCORDIANS!From March to June every year Concordians can save 20% on the regular annual membership by subscribing through these specific URLs. These will allow you to save from the regular price of 87.00$ and pay only 69.60$ (tax included).NOTE:
- Online payment through credit card only
- 20% discount only available on annual membership- For any questions regarding BIXI, please contact their customer services at 514-789-BIXI (2494) or at info@bixi.com.IMPORTANT: You will need your Concordia email address ending with @live.concordia.ca or @mail.concordia.ca. If you haven't activated it, please follow these IITS email activation instructions to do so.NEW REGISTRATION?Use your @live.concordia.ca or @mail.concordia.ca email and the following password: CONCbx22Email ending with @live.concordia.ca:
Go to this specific registration URL: https://secure.bixi.com/group/concordiastudentsEmail ending with @mail.concordia.ca:
Go to this specific registration URL: https://secure.bixi.com/group/concordiastudents2RENEWING YOUR MEMBERSHIP?1. Login to your current BIXI account at https://secure.bixi.com/profile/login
2. Under "Group Discount", click on "Check your eligibility"
3. Choose the group "Concordia students" associated with your respective @live.concordia.ca or @mail.concordia.ca email and the following password: CONCbx22IMPORTANT: You will need your Concordia email address ending with @concordia.ca.NEW REGISTRATION?1. Go to this specific registration URL: 
https://secure.bixi.com/group/concordia-staff-facultymembers
 2. Use your @concordia.ca email and the following password: CONCbx22RENEWING YOUR MEMBERSHIP?1. Login to your current BIXI account at https://secure.bixi.com/profile/login
2. Under "Group Discount", click on "Check your eligibility"
3. Choose the group "Concordia staff & faculty members", use your @concordia.ca email and the following password: CONCbx22 
View BIXI - SGW in a larger map
View BIXI - Loyola in a larger mapBiking to Concordia's two campuses is easy with dedicated bike lanes. Here are some rules of the road and tips to stay safe.Velo Quebec's Safe Biking Guide (French Only)The League of American Bicyclists Concordia Cycling is an association grouping all the undergraduate cycling enthusiasts of Concordia. The main goal of the club is to provide a safe and friendly environment for weekly organized rides opened to all. Right to Move is a non-profit organization that was started in the spring of 1997 by a group who believed bicycles are a form of transportation that should be available to all, regardless of gender, age, wealth or ethnicity.Le Petit Vélo Rouge (LPVR) is a collectively run campus and community bike organization in Montreal. The organization was founded in 2010 with the short-term goal of repairing used bicycles for sale to students at Concordia and across Montreal campuses. Our long term goal of the project is to be a community focused bicycle repair shop at the Loyola campus.The Concordia Library Sustainability Resource Guide is a tool for students, faculty and staff to help explore sutainability research resources. The Guide has links to biking and sustainability book and video recommendations, organizations and other literature material.  Montreal has one of the finest and affordable public transportation networks in North America - buses, metros and trains link the University to the rest of the metropolitan area, Laval, the West Island and the North and South shores.STM online trip planner
 Plan your trip by using the STM’s trip planner at stm.infoTrip Planner apps
 You can also download their app for your smartphone. iOS / AndroidFor information on reduced-fare transit pass at Concordia's Birks Student Service Centre(All the transport service agencies listed here use OPUS smart cards.)Société de transport de Montreal (STM)Agence métropolitaine de transport (AMT)Société de transport de Laval (STL)Réseau de transport de Longueuil (RTL)Don’t forget, the Federal Government now gives a transit pass tax credit. Connect with other Concordians in your area and share the gas money!Carpooling has many advantages. It allows you to share expenses related to fuel and parking, which leads to significant savings. This way, you do not give up on comfort by radically altering your habits, but do minimize the impacts on the environment and road congestion.Concordia Rideshare board
 MyConcordia under Student Services (for students) or Auxiliary Services (for staff/faculty)Other carpooling services:
 Covoiturage AmigoExpress
CovoiturageMontreal
Netlift
 Car sharing is a great alternative to owning a car in Montreal. No expensive maintenance fees, no insurance fees, and the best part is you don’t pay for gas!CommunautoCommunauto is a car sharing service that offers flexible packages based on usage. With reservation for roundtrips...Communauto OR without reservation for one-way trips...Auto-MobileYou can find out more information and where the closest station is by visiting, www.communauto.comCar2GoCar2Go is a point A to point B car sharing service that is ideal for short trips in the downtown core. You can find out more information and where the closest car is by visiting, www.car2go.com/en/montrealEnvironmental, Health & Safety: 
514-848-2424, ext. 4877514-848-2807
ehs@concordia.ca Staff directoryQuestions, comments or concerns?
Please fill out this formReport an injury or a near-miss
 MSDS/SDS© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversitySustainable TransportationContact usCycling
                
            
                
					
                    Secure Indoor Bike Parking Facility
                
            
                
					
                    Abandoned Bike Procedure and Bike Sweeps
                
            
                
					
                    BIXI on Campus
                
            
                
					
                    BIXI Discount (Applications between March-June)
                
            
                
					
                    FOR STUDENTS
                
            
                
					
                    FOR STAFF AND FACULTY
                
            
                
					
                    BIXI Stations on Campus
                
            
                
					
                    Safe Biking Resources
                
            
                
					
                    Biking Resources on Campus
                
            
                
					
                    Public Transit
                
            How to obtain your student discount
                
					
                    Carpooling
                
            
                
					
                    Car SharingBIXI stations at SGW (Downtown)BIXI stations at LoyolaConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424