http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/geography-planning-environment/research/centres/trip-lab.htmlThe Transportation Research for Integrated Planning (TRIP) Lab was founded in October 2011 as part of a Canadian Foundation for Innovation (CFI) grant associated with a Tier-II Canada Research Chair in Transportation and Land-use Linkages for Regional Sustainability. The TRIP lab is equipped with high-powered computers and servers for geographical and statistical analysis and is able to house up to 10 student researchers. It is also home to unique and expansive transportation and land-use data for Montreal as well as other major urban regions across the country. Analysis of this data is made possible by cutting-edge and sophisticated software for geographical analysis, transportation modeling and statistical analysis.Research in the TRIP lab focuses on the modeling of transportation, the environment, land-use and their linkages. It also involves using new technologies to collect data on where people decide to live and how they move around the city. Recently, a smartphone application (DataMobile) has been developed to conduct origin-destination of members of the Concordia community.Research on urban transportation at Concordia:Zachary Patterson (Ph.D. McGill, 2007)
Assistant Professor 
Tier-II CRC in Transportation and Land Use Linkages for Regional Sustainability 
Zachary is Tier-II Canada Research Chair in Transportation and Land Use Linkages for Regional Sustainability. He received his BA (Honours Anthropology) from McGill University in Montreal, his Master's (Economics) from Simon Fraser University in Vancouver and PhD (Geography) from McGill. He was also a postdoctoral researcher at the Ecole polytechnique fédérale de Lausanne in Switzerland in the Transport and Mobility Laboratory (TRANSP-OR). Professionally he worked as an economist at the NAFTA Commission for Environmental Cooperation and as transportation modeler at the Montreal regional public transportation planner, l'Agence métropolitaine de transport. Zachary's research focuses on the modeling of transportation, the environment, land-use and their linkages. He is currently a member of the Transportation Research Board's Planning Applications Committee (ADB50), its Land Development Committee (ADD30), the Global Environmental and Climate Change Centre (GEC3) and of the Interuniversity Research Centre on Enterprise Networks, Logistics and Transportation (CIRRELT).See all of Dr. Patterson's publications on his faculty profile.  Dr. Zachary Patterson, Assistant Professor and Tier-II CRC in Transportation and Land Use Linkages for Regional Sustainability  (514) 848-2424 ext. 3492(514) 848-2032 
zachary.patterson@concordia.ca   Concordia University
Department of Geography, Planning and Environment
S-H 1255-15 (MAP)
Henry F. Hall Building
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityTransportation Research for Integrated Planning (TRIP) LabDepartment of Geography, Planning & Environment
            
                Department of Geography, Planning & Environment
            ContactLocationCurrent Research ProjectsRecent Working PapersCurrent Opportunities (with funding) in the TRIP LabConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Current studentsFormer students