http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2016/08/11/understanding-the-difference-between-start-right-and-discover-concordia.html
The beginning of the next leg of your educational journey can be an exciting, albeit all-consuming time. That’s why Concordia holds Orientation every year before the start of the term to prepare incoming students for university life.However, the comprehensive list of activities that comprise Orientation can be a little overwhelming. With so many different workshops, tutorials and networking opportunities to choose from, which event is right for you?To understand what’s what, here’s a breakdown of Orientation’s two biggest components.Where: H-110, Henry F. Hall Building, Sir George Williams Campus (Downtown)
When: August 29 and 30, from 9 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.Start Right is all about creating specialized strategies and management skills for tackling the university workload. In general, the two-day interactive event will provide in-depth, personalized lessons on the fundamentals of achieving academic success.Both days start off with two lecture-style sessions on general topics that are of importance to all students such as managing your studies, note-taking and exams. Then there is a social break during which lunch is provided.The first day includes a networking lunch, while on Day 2, you’ll get a chance to ask student success mentors questions about university life over your midday meal.After lunch, students will split into smaller “breakout sessions,” which focus on a particular topic that addresses a specific need or interest, such as learning in a second language or how to get involved in university life.Start Right is a great way to hit the ground running while also having the opportunity to connect with fellow incoming students.Register today! Where: H-110, Henry F. Hall Building, Sir George Williams Campus (Downtown)
When: Dates and times vary for each faculty (see below)Discover Concordia is essentially a day-long, faculty-specific orientation fair. New students will have the chance to interact in a relaxed setting, while getting the lowdown on the student services available to them throughout their time at Concordia. In general, it is less formal than Start Right.The day will start with a warm welcome from a university leader, after which a key person from the faculty will provide highlights, information about academic requirements, advising resources and support available to you throughout your degree or certificate.Then you’re free to roam around the fair, where people from across the university will be set up to help you get started with your Concordia experience.From student clubs to on-campus resources, you can peruse the many booths and learn about the different types of support services — from job searches to wellness and spirituality — that are yours to take advantage of as a Concordian.Plus, there will be a student BBQ where you can socialize and enjoy some refreshments. And did we mention there are tons of prizes to be won?Register today!
 Discover Concordia - Arts and Science
 Wednesday, August 31, from 12:30 to 5 p.m.Discover Concordia - John Molson School of Business
 Thursday, September 1, from 12:30 to 5 p.m.Discover Concordia - Engineering and Computer Science
 Friday, September 2, from 9:30 a.m. to 2 p.m.Discover Concordia - Fine Arts
 Friday, September 2, from 9:30 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Find out more about Concordia Orientation 2016. 
        How to wrap your head around university jargon
    
        Orientation 2016: everything you need to know
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityWhat (exactly) Discover Concordia and Start Right can do for youNews
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsLatest storiesMost popularOPINION: Big Pharma’s troubles are good news for innovationConcordia receives funding for 5 Canada Research ChairsThe fight against fake newsConcordia receives $2 million to advance smart-grid technology‘Student success is more gratifying than any prize’13 essential tips for exam successTo nap or not to nap? Sleep tips for ConcordiansJason Camlot wins the Donald Gray Prize for best Victorian Studies essay‘We are conducting research in a living lab’What's it like to meet  the Oracle of Omaha?Start RightDiscover ConcordiaFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424