http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/geography-planning-environment/programs/undergraduate/urban-studies-planning-ba.htmlNew York. Paris. Vancouver. Montreal. Each follows its own rhythm, shaped by geography, history and the people who live there. Explore how residential and commercial areas, community spaces, public services and transportation all work together to form a city’s unique personality. You’ll learn how to plan for future change and make decisions in the public interest.Through labs, lectures and projects, you will:A Bachelor of Arts degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background.Concentrations:*The BA Honours and Specialization in Urban Planning are not accredited planning degrees, but prepare students for a range of planning-related jobs that do not require an accredited degree, and are excellent preparation for students considering graduate studies in planning.
More information
No specific courses are required beyond a DECMinimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.No specific courses are required beyond a DECMinimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
 Sample classes:
More informationOur facilities feature the latest technology that will give you experience with the tools that professionals use in the field. These include:Read more about our facilities
Graduates of the Urban Studies and Urban Planning programs leave with the knowledge and technical skills required for a career in any field that requires engaging spatial analysis of the built environment to plan change, from real estate to public policy or administration.Learn more about your career options.
© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityUrban Studies and Urban Planning (BA)Department of Geography, Planning & Environment
            
                Department of Geography, Planning & Environment
            Key resourcesJoin the conversationDegree options
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements - Urban Planning
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements - Urban Studies
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Facilities
                
            
                
					
                    After your degreeWhy choose Urban Studies and Urban Planning?Program DetailsBachelor of Arts (BA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Cegep StudentsMinimum Cut-off AveragesCegep StudentsMinimum Cut-off Averages