http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/events/artsci/polisci/wssr/2015/05/22/adcockworkshop.htmlThis course aims to give students an introductory overview of challenges, choices, and ways of justifying those choices, in the use of concepts and measurement in case-based research. The first day introduces classic issues of conceptual contestation, stretching, and ideal-types articulated in both much-cited articles by W. B. Gallie, Giovanni Sartori, and Max Weber, and contemporary extensions of their work. The second day focuses on recent refinements in the social scientific literature on concepts addressing issues such as subtypes, dichotomization, and measurement; it then closes by stepping back to consider whether use of concepts and measurement in case-based research embodies a distinctive culture of qualitative research. Throughout the course the stakes of methodological issues will be substantively explored using examples of key concepts in social science research. The most extensive running example in the course, as in the concepts literature, is “democracy.” We will, moreover, also consider the concepts of “neoliberalism,” “revolution,” and “culture,” as well concepts raised by students.

The course format will combine lecture, discussion, and group exercises. One session each day will be devoted to group exercises to develop the methodological skills of students. On day one students will work in groups to analyze the meaning of a social scientific concept of the group’s choice. Then, on day two, each group will formulate a strategy for measuring its chosen concept.

This course can either be followed as a stand-alone two-day module, or preferably as part of a two-week introduction to case study methods in the WSSR.© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
                        Concepts and Measurement in Case-Based Researchwith Dr. Robert AdcockEvents
            
                Events
            Join the ConversationConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/events/artsci/polisci/wssr/2015/05/22/adcockworkshop.htmlThis course aims to give students an introductory overview of challenges, choices, and ways of justifying those choices, in the use of concepts and measurement in case-based research. The first day introduces classic issues of conceptual contestation, stretching, and ideal-types articulated in both much-cited articles by W. B. Gallie, Giovanni Sartori, and Max Weber, and contemporary extensions of their work. The second day focuses on recent refinements in the social scientific literature on concepts addressing issues such as subtypes, dichotomization, and measurement; it then closes by stepping back to consider whether use of concepts and measurement in case-based research embodies a distinctive culture of qualitative research. Throughout the course the stakes of methodological issues will be substantively explored using examples of key concepts in social science research. The most extensive running example in the course, as in the concepts literature, is “democracy.” We will, moreover, also consider the concepts of “neoliberalism,” “revolution,” and “culture,” as well concepts raised by students.

The course format will combine lecture, discussion, and group exercises. One session each day will be devoted to group exercises to develop the methodological skills of students. On day one students will work in groups to analyze the meaning of a social scientific concept of the group’s choice. Then, on day two, each group will formulate a strategy for measuring its chosen concept.

This course can either be followed as a stand-alone two-day module, or preferably as part of a two-week introduction to case study methods in the WSSR.© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
                        Concepts and Measurement in Case-Based Researchwith Dr. Robert AdcockWorkshops on Social Science Research (WSSR)
            
                Workshops on Social Science Research (WSSR)
            Join the ConversationConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/events/artsci/polisci/wssr/2016/05/09/adcockworkshop.htmlThe social sciences have long been concerned with the epistemic status of their claims. Unlike in the natural sciences, where a clear record of practical success tends to make the exploration of such philosophical issues a tangential endeavour, in the social sciences, there is an important and evident relation between differences in the philosophies (whether explicit or implicit) of science of researchers and the kinds of social-scientific work they do.This workshop provides a pluralistic framework for analyzing philosophical positions, their assumptions, and their methodological implications for the ways in which social science research is conducted and judged. While far from an exhaustive survey, the workshop offers an opportunity to engage philosophical topics of recurring relevance to the conduct of social science, the methodological training of new social scientists, and efforts to justify and advance the aspirations of many social scientists to receive some of the public attention and support that natural scientists routinely enjoy.The workshop takes as a baseline the survey of philosophical issues, typology of alternative stances, and call for methodological pluralism advanced in Patrick Thaddeus Jackson’s The Conduct of Inquiry in International Relations: Philosophy of Science and Its Implications for the Study of World Politics (Routledge, 2011).Chapters of Jackson’s book are paired with shorter additional readings of two kinds: 1) selected texts from philosophers so we can judge how Jackson presents philosophical positions; 2) selected texts from other contemporary political scientists so we can better identify and evaluate what is distinctive about Jackson’s arguments.The workshop sessions will be seminars that combine framing presentations by the instructor with extensive discussion. The goal is not only to help participants to understand Jackson’s terminology, assumptions, and arguments, but also to spur them to reflect on and articulate their own philosophical premises and commitments, which may well diverge to a greater or lesser extent from Jackson’s. Click here to find out more about the WSSR's collaboration with the ECPR.
© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
                        What is Social Science Research? Introduction to Philosophy and Methodology with Dr. Robert Adcock, Professorial Lecturer American University's School of International ServiceWorkshops on Social Science Research (WSSR)
            
                Workshops on Social Science Research (WSSR)
            Other WSSR EventsJoin the ConversationConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424with Dr. Robert Adcock, Professorial Lecturer American University's School of International Service
                   	with Dr. Frederic Schaffer, Professor, University of Massachusetts Amherstwith Professor Dvora Yanow, Wageningen Universitywith Dr. Derek Beach, Professor University of Aarhus, Denmarkwith Dr. Lea Sgier, Assistant Professor Central European University (CEU)