http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/research/neuroscience/news-events/archive.html
Nadia Chaudhri has been named a Research Scholar in basic science (May 2011) 
This award was granted to Dr. Chaudhri by FRSQ (now FRQS) for her ongoing research in drug addiction and relapse. 

Québec's medical granting agency renews major funding for CSBN (April 2011) 
The Center has been awarded renewed funding by FRSQ (now FRQS) for a period of four years.

Peter Shizgal has been awarded the 2011 Prix Adrien Pinard by the Société québecoise pour la recherche en psychologie (March 2011) 
Quoting from Concordia's NOW journal: "For two decades, this prize has been awarded... to recognize leaders in their field and scientists who have propelled new findings in psychology... A prolific researcher, Shizgal is the first Concordian to receive the Prix Adrien Pinard since its creation." Past winners have included Pierre Jolicoeur, (Université de Montréal), Ronald Melzack (McGill University), and Brenda Milner (Montreal Neurological Institute ). 

Shimon Amir has been named a Fellow of the Association of Psychological Science (Sep 2010) 
Fellow status is awarded to APS Members who have made "sustained outstanding contributions to the science of psychology in the areas of research, teaching, service, and/or application". 

Jane Stewart has received the John B. Stirling Medal from Queen's University (Nov 2009) 
The award recognizes Dr. Stewart's "meritorious contribution to the honour of Queen’s University". See the Concordia Journal for more information on this event, and the Montreal Gazette for a tribute to Dr. Stewart's long and distinguished career. 

Jim Pfaus has received the Frank A. Beach Award in Comparative Psychology (Aug 2009) 
The award, from Division 6 (Behavioral Neuroscience and Comparative Psychology) of the American Psychological Association, is shared with Jeff Burgdorf, Roger Kroes, and Joe Moskal from Northwestern U, Stefan Brudzynski of Brock U, and Jaak Panksepp at Washington State U, for a collaborative paper in the Journal of Comparative Psychology (2008) on a comparative analysis of ultrasonic vocalizations across play, mating, and aggression. 

Shimon Amir and Peter Shizgal have been inducted into the Provost Circle (Jun 2009) 
Shimon Amir and Peter Shizgal were among those inducted into the first annual Provost Circle of Distinction at Concordia University in recognition of their outstanding career acheivements. See theConcordia Journal for more information. 

Peter Shizgal has been awarded a Concordia University Research Fellowship (May 2009) 
As the 2009 recipient of this award in "The Person and Society" established category, Peter Shizgal will hold the title of "Concordia University Research Fellow" for one year and be awarded a $5,000 research grant. The award recognizes him as an exceptional researcher for his substantial and sustained level of funding received, impressive publication record, graduate student supervision, and for the originality of his contributions in the field of behavioural neuroscience. 

Shimon Amir has been elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada (Sep 2008) 
"An international leader in the study of behavioral neuroscience and regulatory physiology, Shimon Amir is known for early seminal work on the roles of endogenous opioids and in pain and stress, and for his recent studies on brain mechanisms of circadian rhythms. His discoveries have had implications on the regulation of circadian rhythms in humans and have resulted in advances in understanding the relationship between emotional states and circadian rhythms." (From the Royal Society citation)

Jane Stewart has been appointed an Officer of the Order of Canada (Apr 2008) 
"Jane Stewart is an internationally recognized pioneer in behavioral neuroscience. Her cutting-edge research on brain mechanisms has advanced understanding of drug abuse and addiction, and influenced its treatment. She has also raised the profile of psychology through her leadership on a number of committees and advisory boards. At Concordia University, where she has been an inspiring teacher to generations of young researchers, she is a professor and former chair of psychology, and a founder and director of the Center for Studies in Behavioral Neurobiology. A fellow of the Royal Society of Canada, she continues to contribute to our country’s international stature in the field of neuroscience."(From the Governor-General's citation. See also News@Concordia.)

David Mumby was recently awarded "Top Reviewer in 2007" for the journal Behavioural Processes (published by Elsevier).

CSBN receives major funding from Québec's medical granting agency (Jun 2007) 
The Center has recently been accepted by FRSQ (now FRQS) as a Groupe de recherche en neurobiologie comportementale (Research group in behavioral neurobiology) and awarded funding of $1 million over 4 years. This is the first time a university without a faculty of medicine has been given such funding in the area of health. The funding agency's report remarked on the Center's wide application to health issues, and noted how dynamic and active the CSBN is. (Full story in the Concordia Journal.) 
Sherin Al-Safadi, Ph.D. student under the supervision of Shimon Amir, has won a prize for giving the best talk at the First Conference of the Chronobiology Society of Canada. (June 2013)

Joanna Sciascia, graduate student under the supervision of Nadia Chaudhri, has received an FRQS graduate student fellowship for 2013-2015. In the previous year, she received a CIHR Master's Award and an Entrance Award from Concordia University. (June 2013)

Marie Branchaud, undergraduate student supervised by Shimon Amir, has received an NSERC student research award towards her research on the regulation of gene expression in the brain by stress and glucocorticoids, and how this regulation is modulated by physical activity. (June 2013)

Franca Lacroix, undergraduate student under the supervision of Nadia Chaudhri, has received an NSERC student research fellowship for the summer of 2013. She was also a recipient of this award the previous year. (June 2013)

Ariana Frederick and Justin Whatley, undergraduate students supervised by Shimon Amir, have each received a Concordia Undergraduate Student Research Award to support their research throughout the summer of 2013. Ariana's research will look at the role of dopamine in circadian gene expression, while Justin will investigate the circadian regulation of mTor signalling in the brain by quantifying the expression of phospho-S6 ribosomal protein. (June 2013)

Tracey D'Cunha, Ph.D. student under the supervision of Uri Shalev, has received the W.G. Dewhurst Travel Award to attend the 2013 annual meeting of the CCNP (Canadian College of Neuropsychopharmacology). (May 2013)

Suzanne Hood, Ph.D., supervised by Shimon Amir and Jane Stewart, has been awarded the Prix d’excellence (category of health sciences) for her 2011 doctoral dissertation from the Association des doyens des études supérieures au Québec (ADESAQ), offered in partnership with Québec's three public granting agencies.

Stephanie Tobin, Ph.D. student under the supervision of Uri Shalev, was a successful recipient of the W.G. Dewhurst Travel Award to attend the 2010 annual meeting of the CCNP (Canadian College of Neuropsychopharmacology).

Tia Maric, M.A. student under the supervision of Uri Shalev, has been awarded the Alexander Graham Bell Canada Graduate Scholarship (CGS M) from the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC), and the Master Research Scholarship B1 from the Fonds Québécois de la recherche sur la nature et les technologies (FQRNT).

Stephanie Tobin, Ph.D. student under the supervision of Uri Shalev, has been awarded the CIHR "Frederick Banting and Charles Best Canada Graduate Scholarships - Doctoral Award". Title: The neuronal mechanisms mediating the interaction between food seeking and drug seeking behavior.

Stephen Glasgow, Ph.D. student under the supervision of C. Andrew Chapman, has received a two-year NSERC postgraduate scholarship. 

Douglas Caruana, Ph.D. student under the supervision of C. Andrew Chapman, has received aCertificate of Academic Excellence from the Canadian Psychological Association for his doctoral dissertation Dopaminergic modulation of entorhinal function. 

Valerie Harbour, Ph.D. student under the supervision of Shimon Amir, has received a Bourse de formation de doctorat (Doctoral training award) from FRSQ (now FRQS) for her research entitledDérèglement de l'expression de gènes circadiens dans un modèle de dépression chez le rat (Disruption of circadian gene expression in an animal model of depression). 

Alex Gavrila, Ph.D. student under the supervision of Shimon Amir, has received a Bourse de doctorat en recherche (Doctoral research scholarship) from the FQRNT (now FRQNT) for his research entitledSuppression temporaire de l'expression de la protéine période 2 à travers l'acide ribonucléique double brin dans le système limbique antérieur (Studies of the functions of the clock protein PER2 in the limbic forebrain using RNAi-mediated gene silencing). 

Dema Hussain, M.A. student under the supervision of Wayne Brake, has received a Bourse de maîtrise en recherche (Masters research scholarship) from FQRNT (now FRQNT), a postgraduate scholarship from NSERC, a Concordia University Special Entrance Award, and a J.W. McConnell Memorial Graduate Fellowship.
© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityArchiveCenter for Studies in Behavioral Neurobiology
            
                Center for Studies in Behavioral NeurobiologyFRQS Groupe de recherche en neurobiologie comportementaleFRQS Groupe de recherche en neurobiologie comportementaleConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424