http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/events/offices/vpaer/aar/2016/09/16/book-launch-enn-raudsepp-vandra.htmlFriday, September 16Join beloved professor emeritus and former Department of Journalism chair Enn Raudsepp for the launch of his first novel!  His book Vändra is published by Lakeshore Press. About the book:
The horrors of the Eastern Front crossed Estonia twice, first with the Germans pushing the Soviet Red Army to its limits, and then, in a reversal of fortunes, the Red Army decimating the German forces. Ordinary people who lived during these years in Estonia were faced with many choices such as cooperation with the Soviets, assistance to the Germans, or fighting both occupiers with the hope of regaining freedom for Estonia. In this cauldron lived Karl Kingsepp, the son of poor tenant farmers, initially attracted to the church as a means to escape a bleak future, but then drawn into the fighting that raged around him. Through all those years, while scrambling to stay alive and to protect his family, he also had to deal with the problems of his parishioners, who ran the gamut from hardworking farmers to star-crossed lovers and fanatical nationalists. In the end he had to decide whether to stay in Estonia or to flee to the West on board a German ship bound for Danzig. This is the story of one man’s decision, a decision that affected many people and had great ramifications for the future.Enn Raudsepp was born in Vändra, but left with his family in September 1944 when the Red Army occupied Estonia. They arrived in Canada in 1948 after  nearly four years in a  United Nations refugee camp in Germany. After graduate studies at McGill and Columbia Universities, he worked as a journalist at The Montreal Star, The Toronto Telegram and The Globe and Mail, and recently retired after teaching journalism at Concordia University for 30 years. He and his wife, Dr. Dana Hearne, live in Montreal.© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
                        Book launch: Enn Raudsepp's VandraEvents
            
                EventsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424