http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/offices/vpaer/aar/2014/08/04/concordia-taught-me-how-to-learn.htmlCanadian-Italian broadcast journalist Marianna Simeone, BA 86, will be honoured at the 21st YWCA Women of Distinction Awards. For her contribution to communications, she is one of 13 laureates to be recognized in September. Simeone is president and founder of MS MEDIA, a Montreal-based communications strategy and public relations firm. She also works in production and voice-over narration.The Women of Distinction awards commemorate innovation, leadership and impact in various sectors of society. Simeone, the daughter of Italian immigrants, has worked for over 25 years in international business, public affairs, culture and social services.She grew up in Montreal’s post-war Italian community. “Emigrating from Europe to Canada was like going to Mars,” she recalls.After completing her studies, Simeone became a poster girl for Concordia’s “Real education for the real world” campaign.  “Concordia taught me how to learn,” she says, “it made me strong enough to take on so many different projects.”Among those projects, Simeone served as executive director Italian Chamber of Commerce in Montreal from1986 to 2000. She was one of youngest women to take on the job and the local chapter flourished under her leadership.At her alma mater, Simeone served on Concordia’s Board of Governors for two yeas and was a co-chair, major gifts, for the university’s Campaign for a the New Millennium. Simeone also served as a board member for the Canadian Museum of Civilization in Ottawa and was on the building committee for New Canadian War Museum in the same city.Simeone worked in media, first as an announcer and commentator on CJAD. Over the past 14 years, she has hosted various radio and television shows in English, French and Italian. Her Italian current affairs television program, 7 Giorni, aired on Global Television for four years.Her editorial work at CBC News Television garnered earned her three RTNDA (Radio and Television News Directors’ Association) Awards for best TV commentary in 2008, 2009 and 2010.A mother of two, she was appointed Knight of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic. In 2012, she received the Queen Elizabeth 11 Diamond Jubilee Medal. 
        ‘I think of myself as a scientist first’
    
        ‘We need to see other women in roles we might aspire to’
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia University‘Concordia taught me how to learn’: Marianna SimeoneNews
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424