http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/geography-planning-environment/programs/graduate/environmental-assessment-menv.htmlEvaluating the environmental impacts of a project prior to its implementation is an essential part of sound decision-making. Objective assessments must identify all environmental risks associated with a proposal and offer solutions to mitigate those concerns. We need scholars to acquire a foundational knowledge in federal environmental laws and policies so they can effectively develop impact studies before prospective plans or programs are carried out.The MEnv in Environmental Assessment provides occasions for you to establish a comprehensive approach to scoping, data collection and analysis, and Geographical Information Systems (GIS). You will explore all aspects and methodologies of the environmental assessment process as you effectively analyze technical reports and oversee complex projects.Benefit from a four-month internship where you will work under professional supervision in an environmental assessment related field. Potential placement sites include all levels of government, international agencies, non-governmental organizations and private corporations. You will also be given opportunities to improve your soft skills through a series of resumé writing and interview workshops, as well as an introduction to basic concepts of project management.Our acclaimed faculty members represent a dynamic group of researchers with cross-disciplinary interests in fields as varied as biology and film.Requirements for the DegreeAdmissions Requirements. The normal requirement for admission to the MEnv in EA is a Bachelor’s degree in an appropriate discipline in Arts or Science from a recognized university with a minimum GPA of 3.30 on 4.30. Applicants are selected on the basis of a sound undergraduate academic record and strong language skills in English and/or French which allows them to secure an internship, which is a requirement of the program. Students who lack appropriate Ecology or Geographic Information Systems preparation are required to take preparatory courses such as BIOL 205, Introduction to Sustainability; a 300-level physical geography course; or GEOG 363, Geographic Information Systems. Those lacking a social science background may be required to take GEOG 355, Resource Analysis and Management, or a similar course.Students already registered in the Diploma in EA (DEA) are permitted to apply to the MEnv in EA. Students who choose to apply to the MEnv in EA do not graduate from the DEA, but their courses and grades are transferred to the MEnv in EA. A minimum grade of B is required for a course to be transferred from the DEA to the MEnv in EA. The Graduate Committee of the Department is responsible for the admissions transfer from the DEA to the MEnv in EA.Your completed application will include:Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures. Courses typically offered include:Consult the graduate calendar for a complete list of current courses.We are committed to providing you the support you need to focus on your studies. A limited number of teaching assistantships are available for students, valued at $4,500 per semester.In some cases, research assistantships are available for specific projects.Please also consult Concordia’s graduate funding page and Financial Aid and Awards.During a four-month internship, you will gain hands-on experience under professional supervision. Many internships evolve into temporary or permanent employment positions, and students are often paid during their placement.To enter the internship students must have completed the prescribed 27 credits of course work, must have achieved an overall GPA of 3.30 or higher, and must have demonstrated language proficiency as required by the internship host.Examples of past internship sites include:The Geography, Planning and Environment Graduate Students Association hosts seminars and social events for all graduate students in our department. Become an elected officer and participate in a number of committees that make a vital contribution to university activities.A MEnv in Environmental Assessment prepares you for careers in various sectors, including the federal and provincial governments, environmental assessment agencies and private sector consulting firms.About 85 per cent of our alumni have found employment in various environmental fields. Our graduates are also well-placed to continue their studies at the doctoral level.If you are registered in the Diploma in Environmental Assessment (DEA), you are permitted to apply to the MEnv if you have completed all compulsory courses and at least 6 credits of elective courses, as well as maintained a GPA of 3.30 or above. You will be withdrawn from the DEA and all your courses with grades of B or better will be transferred to the MEnv. The department’s graduate committee will be responsible for the admissions transfer from the DEA to the MEnv.Email: Maeanne.Burridge@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2051Location: 
 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W., H 1255-21
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 1M8 Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityEnvironmental Assessment (MEnv)Department of Geography, Planning & Environment
            
                Department of Geography, Planning & Environment
            Key resourcesJoin the conversationDegree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application process
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines 
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Program structure
                
            
                
					
                    Funding
                
            
                
					
                    Internship
                
            
                
					
                    Student initiatives
                
            
                
					
                    Your professional future
                
            
                
					
                    Transferring from the DEA to the MEnv
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a master’s in Environmental Assessment?Program detailsMaster of Environment (MEnv)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424