http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/journalism/events.htmlA talk in the Philosophy Department's Speaker SeriesPhilosophy MA defencePhilosophy MA defenceThe New Horizons in Responsible Gambling Conference has become one of the most highly regarded conferences of its kind in the world. Hundreds of industry professionals converge on the conference each year, making it an incredible platform for thought leadership. The ideas shared by our speakers have the potential to truly make an impact in the industry. La conférence se déroulera sur le thème Au cœur de la solution, et réunira, durant quatre jours, quelque 200 conférenciers qui viendront partager leurs recherches et leurs connaissances sur les pratiques en réduction des méfaits, dans un événement multidimensionnel.       //        

The Conference has adopted the theme At the Heart of Response for its 2017 edition.
Through a 4-day program with 200 speakers, plenary sessions, presentations on research and practice, training workshops, exhibitions, film festival, dialogue space and many side eventsMain Conference July 21-22, 2016, Pre-Conference July 19-20, 2017© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityDepartment of Journalism
            
                Department of JournalismHappy Birthday Canada: Celebrating 150 YearsToday's Arts and Science eventsUpcoming eventsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424with Dr. Avigail Eisenberg, Professor, University of Victoria
            with Jean-Pierre Kingsley, Former Chief Electoral Officer of Canada
            with Honourable Don Boudria, Former Government House Leader 
            with Dr. Keith Archer, Chief Electoral Officer of British Columbia
            Honourable Senator James S. Cowan, Senate Liberal Leader
            with Dr. Matteo Gianni, Associate Professor, University of Geneva
            with Honourable Senator James S. Cowan, Senate Liberal Leader
            with Michael Ferguson, Auditor General of Canada
            with Honourable Stockwell Day, Former President of the Treasury Board
            with Honourable Joan Fraser, Chair of the Senate Standing Committee on Rules, Procedures and the Rights of Parliament
            with Amanda Alvaro, Political Commentator and Co Founder at Pomp & Circumstance
            with Dr. Diana L. Gustafson, Professor, Memorial University
            with Honourable Michelle Rempel, Member of Parliament, Calgary Nose Hill
            The Right Honourable Beverley McLachlin, P.C., Chief Justice of Canada
            with Honourable Justice John Gomery, Former Superior Court of Quebec Judge and Public Inquiry Commissioner
            with Dr. Harold Clarke, Ashbel Smith Professor, University of Texas at Dallas
            with Dr. Patti Tamara Lenard, Associate Professor, University of Ottawa
            Lord Bhikhu Parekh, Emeritus Professor and Member of the UK House of Lords
            with Lord Bhikhu Parekh, Emeritus Professor and Member of the UK House of Lords
            with Kevin Page, Former Parliamentary Budget Officer of Canada
            with Mel Cappe, Former Clerk of the Privy Council
            with Dr. John Courtney, Senior Policy Fellow, University of Saskatchewan
            with Ian Capstick, Managing Partner of MediaStyle
            with Dr. Guy Peters, Maurice Falk Professor of Government at the University of Pittsburgh
            with Martin Patriquin, Quebec Bureau Chief, Maclean's Magazine
            with Charles Robert, Clerk of the Senate and Clerk of the Parliaments
            with Dr. David J. Bercuson, Director, Centre for Military, Security and Strategic Studies and Associate Director, International Programs, University of Calgary School of Public Policy
            with Dr. Keith Banting Stauffer Dunning Fellow and Professor Emeritus, Queen's UniversityandDr. Richard Johnston Professor and Canada Research Chair in Public Opinion, Elections, and Representation, University of British Columbia
            Dr. Richard Johnston, Professor and Canada Research Chair in Public Opinion, Elections, and Representation, University of British Columbia
            with Dr. Melissa Williams, Professor and Founding Director of the Centre for Ethics at the University of Toronto
            with Tim Powers Vice-Chairman of Summa Strategies
            with Dr. Hans-Dieter Klingemann Professor Emeritus, Social Science Research Centre Berlin (WZB)
            with Dr. Lawrence LeDuc, Professor Emeritus University of Toronto and Dr. Jon Pammett, Professor Carleton University
            with Dr. Benjamin R. Barber, Distinguished Senior Fellow, Fordham University Urban Consortium President and Founder, The Global Parliament of Mayors Project
            with Yves Côté, Commissioner of Canada Elections
            with Dr. Matteo Gianni, Associate Professor, University of Genevahttp://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/psychology/events.htmlDevelopment of Electro-Anaerobic Membrane Bioreactor (EAnMBR) for treatment of high-strength industrial wastewaterVichy against Vichy: History and Memory of the Second World War in the Former Capital of the État français from 1940 to the PresentIt's back to school with one of Canada’s most successful film and TV producersIntegrated Decision Support System for Bridge Type Selection at Conceptual Design StageRing in the holiday season with fellow Concordia  alumni!Ring in the holiday season with fellow tri-state alumni!Ring in the festive season with Concordia President Alan Shepard and your alumni communityTwo choirs in one evening! Jean-Sébastien Allaire leads the largest performing ensemble in the university in this popular concert of choral music. The university choir, made up of students, staff and the community, give their all to celebrate the end of the semester.  Kathy Kennedy directs the chamber choir in a program for a smaller, more intimate choir, singing repertoire from the Renaissance to the present day. The act of singing is one of the most unifying human abilities – both for the singers and the audience. Listen, breathe, and enjoy. Discover how you can make to the most of your science degree to help prepare you for the job market.  Learn about what you have to offer, types of jobs available, the skills employers look for, and resources available to help you get your dream job.Identification and Control of Nonlinear Singularly Perturbed Systems Using Multi-time-scale Neural NetworksRing in the holiday season with fellow Concordia  alumni!Ring in the festive season with Concordia President Alan Shepard and your alumni communityRobust Sensor Fault Detection and Isolation of Gas Turbine EnginesOn December 8, you can buy treasures starting at $2 to support local charitiesRing in the holiday season with fellow Concordia alumni!Ring in the holiday season with fellow Concordia  alumni!Fault Diagnosis and Estimation of Dynamical Systems with Application to Gas TurbinesA talk in the Philosophy Department's Speaker SeriesUnsettled Island: Irish Nationalism, Unionism, and British Imperialism in the Shaping of Irish Independence, 1909-1922Ring in the festive season with Concordia President Alan Shepard and your alumni communityThe Eclectik Ensemble is a different kind of Concordia Big Band, always drawing from the Jazz repertoire but orchestrating their sound with a varied and fearless mix of instruments. This semester’s version will be five winds, four electric guitars, electric and acoustic pianos, vibraphone, bass and drums. We will be playing works from Mingus, Monk and Swallow arranged and orchestrated by some of Montreal’s most talented writers.
Step back into the jazz age with Dave Turner and the Concordia Big Band. The closing concert of the semester will send you out with that great brass and reed sound in your ears, some fabulous singers in your mind's eye, and wishing you had brought your dancing shoes. Swing into the Oscar Peterson Concert Hall for an unforgettable evening.  Directed by Dave Turner. Geordie production's holiday gala fundraiser production.Sexually active women 21 and older should have a Pap test every 2 to 3 years. Many women are not up-to-date with this screening. 

NOT DROP-IN; BY APPOINTMENT ONLY - call x. 3565 to book your spot.Join us for an information session about how the music industry has evolved. A comparative study of research-for-design: Teaching and learning in two undergraduate graphic design programs in Canada and Mexico.Perceived Image, Prestige, Respect and Support: How Employees Manage Multiple Reflected Appraisals at the workplacePhilosophy MA defencePhilosophy MA defenceAnnual children's Christmas concert by the Suzuki institute of music.Metal Organic Frameworks as Dual Functional Adsorbent/Catalysts for Plasma Air Purification SystemsElectrochemical filtration technology for the removal and degradation of ibuprofen and bisphenol A from aqueous solutionsSexually active women 21 and older should have a Pap test every 2 to 3 years. Many women are not up-to-date with this screening. 

NOT DROP-IN; BY APPOINTMENT ONLY - call x. 3565 to book your spot.Sexually active women 21 and older should have a Pap test every 2 to 3 years. Many women are not up-to-date with this screening. 

NOT DROP-IN; BY APPOINTMENT ONLY - call x. 3565 to book your spot.If you are a student in the Engineering and Computer Science Program, please join us for the Engineering and Computer Science Career Fair. It will be a whole day event, where you will have the chance to network with multiple employers within industry.The is a meeting of Living Knowledge community of practice, which brings together faculty and staff who share a passion for community engaged scholarship, with the goal of creating connections, sharing ideas and strengthening our collective practice.  Students, community organizers and representatives from other universities are also welcome. Please RSVP to livingknowledge@concordia.caWhen working with others, we often forget the impressions and impact we have on those around us. We often dismiss just how important our personal reputation impacts the way we are perceived and in turn, how others relate to us and ultimately, what opportunities are opened to us. From first impressions to making a lasting impression, this one-day workshop will provide you with tips, tricks and tools from dressing the part to knowing how to apply effective communication techniques and professional behaviour when working closely with others.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityDepartment of Psychology
            
                Department of PsychologyHappy Birthday Canada: Celebrating 150 YearsToday's eventsUpcoming eventsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424with Dr. Avigail Eisenberg, Professor, University of Victoria
            with Jean-Pierre Kingsley, Former Chief Electoral Officer of Canada
            with Honourable Don Boudria, Former Government House Leader 
            with Dr. Keith Archer, Chief Electoral Officer of British Columbia
            Honourable Senator James S. Cowan, Senate Liberal Leader