http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/psychology/programs/graduate/faq.htmlApplicants must have, or be completing, an honours undergraduate B.A. or B.Sc. degree in Psychology or its equivalent in order to apply to the Master’s program under either the Research Option or the Research and Clinical Training Option. Minimum GPAs are 3.0/4.3 for the Research Option, and 3.5/4.3 for the Research and Clinical Training Option.  Please note that successful applicants typically have substantially higher GPAs than these minimums. There is a maximum of 11 students admitted to the Research and Clinical Training Option from a pool of several hundred applicants each year.To be successful, applicants must have a faculty member willing to serve as their thesis supervisor, and applicants must therefore identify at least one faculty member with matching research interests that could serve as their thesis supervisor.  Before applying to the program, it can be useful to review the descriptions of research interests of faculty members on our Departmental web page, and to contact potential research supervisors to determine if they will be taking new students into their lab in the coming September.Students in related disciplines such as neuroscience or cognitive science can determine if they have the equivalent of an honours undergraduate degree in Psychology by using this checklist. Students with such degrees that have gained relevant research experience can be considered for admission, and typically take appropriate graduate and/or undergraduate courses to ensure coverage of the major content areas in Psychology (developmental, clinical, cognitive, neurobiology).Applicants to the Research and Clinical Training Options are required to have taken undergraduate courses in major relevant content areas as set out by the Ordre des Psychologues du Quebec (Checklist 2).  Applicants who do have an honours degree in Psychology but who do not have all the required courses at time of entry can typically gain the appropriate competencies as part of the graduate program in Psychology.Students who want to become a clinical psychologist but who do not have an honours degree in Psychology or its equivalent with a competitive GPA can see answers to related FAQs.Applicants to the Doctoral program must have a Master’s degree in Psychology including an empirical research-based thesis.  Doctoral applicants with M.A. or M.Sc. degrees in closely related disciplines may be required to take appropriate graduate courses to ensure coverage of the major content areas in Psychology.The on-line application can be accessed via concordia.ca/apply. Instructions for completing on-line applications are contained in the Instructions File, and applicants must also upload the Psychology Background Summary Form during the on-line application process. Persons with visible handicaps and from ethnically diverse groups are encouraged to apply.  Applicants must submit academic transcripts, three letters of reference, and a statement of purpose. Applicants to the Research and Clinical Training Option must ask the authors of their recommendation letters to complete a supplemental form about the applicant's suitability for clinical work. The Graduate Record Examination (aptitude and advanced) is recommended but not required, and the first-language of applicants is considered when their GRE scores are reviewed. The GRE institution code for Concordia University is 0956, and scores should be sent to the Sir George Williams campus. Materials must be received by the December 15 application deadline for entry into the program the following September.The minimum TOEFL requirement for doctoral programmes for international students whose first language is not English is a score of 550, or 213 on the computer-based TOEFL (or its equivalent in other standard tests).Letters of acceptance are typically sent in mid-March. The Department follows the deadline of April 15, set by the Canadian Psychological Association, after which late offers are only made to applicants who have not committed to attending another department (see the CPA website for a description of the policy).....but I don’t think I meet the requirements of having “an Honours Undergraduate degree in Psychology (BA or BSc) with a high GPA” that is required for application to the graduate program in Psychology. What are my options?An honours undergraduate degree in Psychology, or its equivalent, is required for the Research Training Option. The following courses are to serve as a guide to what an honours degree typically entails.An honours undergraduate degree in Psychology or its equivalent, including the following specific courses, is required for the Research and Clinical Training Option.Note: Applicants who do have an honours degree in Psychology but who do not have all the above required courses at time of entry can typically gain the appropriate competencies as part of the graduate program in Psychology.The Psychology Department will no longer be accepting Qualifying Year Students with the exception of those already tentatively accepted into the graduate program.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityApplication Requirements and ProceduresDepartment of Psychology
            
                Department of Psychology
            NoticesMaster’s ApplicantsDoctoral ApplicantsProceduresFrequently Asked Questions (FAQs) about admission to our graduate program in Clinical PsychologyChecklist 1Checklist 2I want to be a Psychologist!Prerequisite Courses for the MA Program in Psychology, (Research Training Option)Prerequisite Courses for the MA Program in Psychology, (Research and Clinical Training Option)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/psychology/programs/graduate/faq.htmlApplicants must have, or be completing, an honours undergraduate B.A. or B.Sc. degree in Psychology or its equivalent in order to apply to the Master’s program under either the Research Option or the Research and Clinical Training Option. Minimum GPAs are 3.0/4.3 for the Research Option, and 3.5/4.3 for the Research and Clinical Training Option.  Please note that successful applicants typically have substantially higher GPAs than these minimums. There is a maximum of 11 students admitted to the Research and Clinical Training Option from a pool of several hundred applicants each year.To be successful, applicants must have a faculty member willing to serve as their thesis supervisor, and applicants must therefore identify at least one faculty member with matching research interests that could serve as their thesis supervisor.  Before applying to the program, it can be useful to review the descriptions of research interests of faculty members on our Departmental web page, and to contact potential research supervisors to determine if they will be taking new students into their lab in the coming September.Students in related disciplines such as neuroscience or cognitive science can determine if they have the equivalent of an honours undergraduate degree in Psychology by using this checklist. Students with such degrees that have gained relevant research experience can be considered for admission, and typically take appropriate graduate and/or undergraduate courses to ensure coverage of the major content areas in Psychology (developmental, clinical, cognitive, neurobiology).Applicants to the Research and Clinical Training Options are required to have taken undergraduate courses in major relevant content areas as set out by the Ordre des Psychologues du Quebec (Checklist 2).  Applicants who do have an honours degree in Psychology but who do not have all the required courses at time of entry can typically gain the appropriate competencies as part of the graduate program in Psychology.Students who want to become a clinical psychologist but who do not have an honours degree in Psychology or its equivalent with a competitive GPA can see answers to related FAQs.Applicants to the Doctoral program must have a Master’s degree in Psychology including an empirical research-based thesis.  Doctoral applicants with M.A. or M.Sc. degrees in closely related disciplines may be required to take appropriate graduate courses to ensure coverage of the major content areas in Psychology.The on-line application can be accessed via concordia.ca/apply. Instructions for completing on-line applications are contained in the Instructions File, and applicants must also upload the Psychology Background Summary Form during the on-line application process. Persons with visible handicaps and from ethnically diverse groups are encouraged to apply.  Applicants must submit academic transcripts, three letters of reference, and a statement of purpose. Applicants to the Research and Clinical Training Option must ask the authors of their recommendation letters to complete a supplemental form about the applicant's suitability for clinical work. The Graduate Record Examination (aptitude and advanced) is recommended but not required, and the first-language of applicants is considered when their GRE scores are reviewed. The GRE institution code for Concordia University is 0956, and scores should be sent to the Sir George Williams campus. Materials must be received by the December 15 application deadline for entry into the program the following September.The minimum TOEFL requirement for doctoral programmes for international students whose first language is not English is a score of 550, or 213 on the computer-based TOEFL (or its equivalent in other standard tests).Letters of acceptance are typically sent in mid-March. The Department follows the deadline of April 15, set by the Canadian Psychological Association, after which late offers are only made to applicants who have not committed to attending another department (see the CPA website for a description of the policy).....but I don’t think I meet the requirements of having “an Honours Undergraduate degree in Psychology (BA or BSc) with a high GPA” that is required for application to the graduate program in Psychology. What are my options?An honours undergraduate degree in Psychology, or its equivalent, is required for the Research Training Option. The following courses are to serve as a guide to what an honours degree typically entails.An honours undergraduate degree in Psychology or its equivalent, including the following specific courses, is required for the Research and Clinical Training Option.Note: Applicants who do have an honours degree in Psychology but who do not have all the above required courses at time of entry can typically gain the appropriate competencies as part of the graduate program in Psychology.The Psychology Department will no longer be accepting Qualifying Year Students with the exception of those already tentatively accepted into the graduate program.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityApplication Requirements and ProceduresDepartment of Psychology
            
                Department of Psychology
            NoticesMaster’s ApplicantsDoctoral ApplicantsProceduresFrequently Asked Questions (FAQs) about admission to our graduate program in Clinical PsychologyChecklist 1Checklist 2I want to be a Psychologist!Prerequisite Courses for the MA Program in Psychology, (Research Training Option)Prerequisite Courses for the MA Program in Psychology, (Research and Clinical Training Option)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424