http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/geography-planning-environment/programs/graduate/environmental-assessment-menv/internship-reports.htmlThe Report is intended to document and reflect upon the internship experience and to demonstrate the student’s ability to analyze and/or critically reflect on an aspect or several aspects of the practical internship experience in light of concepts and theories acquired in their Master in Environmental Assessment program courses. As such it is not merely a simple description of internship activities, nor is it intended for governmental or industry purposes. The Internship Report is the equivalent of a graduate seminar paper. It is theoretically grounded and includes a critical analysis or reflection of some aspect or case derived from the internship activities. For more information on internships please contact Maude Lecourt, Internship Coordinator (IC), menv.internship@concordia.caThe Internship Report submission involves 4 stages:Within 2 months of the start of the internshipWithin 2 months of the end of the internshipMinimum 6 weeks prior to the desired date of graduation*GPD & IC(electronic format)IC (PDF + 2 bound copies)including revision from compiled feedback*Oral Presentation sessions will be held every second full week of the month on Thursday and/or Friday.  Maximum of 3 students per month.*For more information on the Completion of ENVS 696 refer to the Guidelines for Internship Requirements.Within two months of the start of the 4-month internship, you must submit a 1200 to 1500 word Report Proposal outlining in detail:Examples of internship report topic.The Report should be between 12,000 – 15,000 words (all front and end matter included), double-spaced, typed and appropriately referenced. The Report should contain the following:(1)  Title page -- your name, the date, the organization you worked for, the period of the internship, your External Supervisor’s name and the word count.(2)  Description of the Internship – This relatively brief section should include some background to the organization, the department and the projects on which you worked.(3)  Body of the Report – This must represent the substantive part of the Report (at least 10,000 words) and should link some aspect (or several aspects) of a project on which you worked with some aspect (or several aspects) of what you learned in courses of your Master. This should be composed of:What precisely is the purpose of the Internship Report; why is the topic relevant; how is the analysis or critical reflection organized. A comprehensive review of the relevant theoretical literature and why you chose this set of literature in relation to your topic.  Case Study: The case study could be directly related to your internship experience or could have been inspired during this experience, examples:Case:  the internship is the case to be studied.Policy issue: A critical perspective/reflection of a policy issue.Investigation: A detailed description and analysis of an investigation conducted by the student as part of their internship.Brief review of the Report’s argument(s) and findings, and presentation of the theoretical, practical and/or political implications of the Report’s findings.  *For more information on the Structure of the Internship Report refer to the Guidelines for Internship Requirements. (4) Full Bibliography – In alphabetical order of the author’s last name. Follow MLA, Chicago, Turabian, or some other standard style manual. All entries must have been referenced in the paper. The usual range is between 20 and 50 sources (other than websites). Websites need to be cited appropriately as well (author, title, access date, etc.).Sequence of contents:Appendices (where applicable)Title page: A standard title page is required (see above). Include the total word count here.Abstract:  The report must contain an abstract typed on a separate single sheet headed not exceeding 250 words.Length – The paper should be between 12,000 – 15,000 words (including everything from cover page to bibliography – not counting appendices).  Compute the total word count on the title page.*For more information on the Format of the Internship Report refer to the Guidelines for Internship Requirements. The student must submit within 4 months of the end of the internship, electronic versions to the GPD and the IC. Failure to submit the report on time might result in a Fail.The report should be well written (e.g., clarity), well thought through and well argued (e.g., is there a logical flow/structure), present knowledge from the literature clearly and relate it to their internship, correctly apply concepts related to EA to a particular case or to their general internship experience, analyse and/or critically reflect on the internship experience, e.g., resulting in the identification of strengths and weaknesses and room for improvement. The Examiner's Evaluation form includes the following criteria:Thoroughness of the analysis (relevancy of the topic, methods, logical flow, arguments, clarity),Literature review (review of previous work, relevancy, quantity),Presentation (organization, tables, figures, style).After the last revisions were made and approved, the student must submit 2 bound copies (Printed one side, spiral spine, transparency on top cover and black back cover), one to be placed in the EA library for other MEnv students to read, one kept by the GPE Department and 1 electronic PDF version of the Final Report to the IC.*For more information on Evaluation Procedure of ENVS 696 refer to the Guidelines for Internship Requirements.Guidelines for internship requirements
Internship program timeline
List of report's abstracts
Examiner's evaluation
© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityInternship ReportsDepartment of Geography, Planning & Environment
            
                Department of Geography, Planning & EnvironmentDeadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Report Proposal
                
            
                
					
                    Structure of the Internship Report
                
            
                
					
                    Format of the Internship Report
                
            
                
					
                    EvaluationKey documentsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424