http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/journalism-diploma.htmlReporters, editors, publishers and owners understand that in order to maintain a reputable voice in today’s changing media landscape, they must remain committed to telling factual narratives that inspire positive social change. Journalists need to honour members of the public by providing them with credible information to better their lives and communities. Now more than ever, we need motivated storytellers interested in the truth to dedicate themselves to the highest standards of this editorial profession.The Graduate Diploma in Journalism provides an opportunity for you to acquire practical, hands-on experience across multiple platforms, including print, radio, television and online reporting. Offered over an 11-month period that begins in June and finishes the following April, our program is focussed, intense and supplies you with the skills required to practice journalism and cover timely news events as well as current affairs on deadline.With the support of acclaimed faculty members, recipients of prestigious honours like the Pulitzer Prize and the Radio Television Digital News Association Lifetime Achievement Award, you will be challenged to be a professional journalist on day one and pursue fieldwork as you explore the theoretical and analytical dimensions of journalism. Benefit from Montreal’s strong media environment where you can network with working journalists and report on stories related to politics, culture, science, the arts and much more.Requirements for the DiplomaCourses. All students are required to complete 33 credits in the following sequence:Summer Term (9 credits)
JOUR 501 Research Methods for Journalism
 JOUR 502 Introduction to Reporting 
 JOUR 511 Introduction to MultimediaFall Term (12 credits)
JOUR 500 Critical Approaches to Journalism
 JOUR 504 Intermediate Reporting
 JOUR 530 Advanced Radio News
 JOUR 536 Advanced Video JournalismWinter Term (12 credits)
JOUR 510 Web Editing and Page Design
 JOUR 513 Journalism Ethics and the LawAdmission Requirements. Entry into the program requires a bachelor’s degree or equivalent in a field other than journalism from a recognized university with a minimum GPA of 3.00. However, students who have graduated with a Journalism degree in a language other than English may also be considered. Applicants are required to submit a letter of intent together with the application which should be about 600 words outlining the student’s background, academic and work experience, and aspirations in journalism. Qualified applicants may be interviewed. Students should be aware that written assignments in workshops are in English.Although it does not determine acceptance, applicants are advised that a working knowledge of French is important. Normally the program is taken full-time and completed in one year (three terms).Your completed application will include:Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures. *Late applications may be considered, please contact the Program Director.Courses typically offered include:Consult the graduate calendar for a complete list of current courses. All courses and assignments are conducted in English.Teaching assistantships are available and awarded to students exhibiting strong writing skills. These positions are awarded on a competitive basis and valued at $18 per hour.A number of departmental awards are also available for graduate students, ranging from $500 to $5,000. They include:Please also consult Concordia’s graduate funding page and Financial Aid and Awards.State-of-the-art facilities provide you a vibrant digital news environment with access to radio newsrooms, a television studio and editing labs.Students work with the latest digital equipment and software. The Equipment Depot houses professional grade equipment where you can reserve production equipment, such as Canon XA25 TV camera kits, kits for Canon 5D camera kits for photography and GoPro cameras, as well as Jn Roland 09 recorders for audio and written assignments.The Learning Center also has numerous resources available, including:Faculty members are former or currently working journalists. They bring practical experience into the classrooms and are dedicated to producing professional journalists trained to ask important and critical questions about our world.Their research and creation interests include:Opportunities for paid and unpaid internships are usually available on a competitive basis. Our internship coordinator facilitates opportunities for interested students whenever possible and organizes summer and fall internships. Former students have interned at a plethora of sites, including:Many students have also won the prestigious CBC News Joan Donaldson Scholarship, an intensive four-month paid internship at one or more locations within CBC News and Centres.Our graduates are nationally recognized journalists striving to fight injustice in world awash with misinformation. They are known for their intelligence and rigour.Alumni find great success as reporters, press secretaries, editors, general managers, documentary filmmakers, creative directors, producers, broadcasters, communications officers, and digital content directors in news and media outlets around the world.Recent graduates can be found working at:Former students also hold prominent positions in government, health care, and research and development.Email: Mircea.Mandache@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 5283Location: 
 7141 Sherbrooke Street West, CJ 3253
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H4B 1R6Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityJournalism (GrDip)Why pursue a graduate diploma in Journalism?Diploma requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application process
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Funding
                
            
                
					
                    Facilities
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty research interests
                
            
                
					
                    Internship
                
            
                
					
                    Your professional future
                
            Contact usRelated ProgramsGraduate Diploma (GrDip)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424