http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/polisci/wssr/all-guest-lecturers/leasgier.htmlDr. Lea Sgier is Assistant Professor in Political Science at Central European University (CEU) in Budapest, Hungary, where she teaches qualitative methods, discourse analysis, and gender and politics at postgraduate level. She also teaches qualitative methodology at the University of Geneva, Switzerland (since 2003), qualitative data analysis at the Essex Summer School in Social Science Data Analysis in the UK (since 2007), and qualitative interviewing at the ECPR Winter School in Methods and Techniques in  Bamberg (Germany) (since 2015). She has also taught workshops and courses in a variety of other contexts, including the University of Hong Kong, the Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies (HEID) in Geneva, the University of Zurich, the Professional University of Social Work in Geneva, the University of Limerick (Ireland), Doctoral Programmes in Political Science,  Gender Studies and Social Sciences in Switzerland and Belgium, and two large scientific cooperation projects with the Western Balkans (RRPP) and the South Caucasus (ASCN) respectively, for which she also acts as chief methodological advisor.  Since 2013 she co-chairs the ECPR Standing Group on Political Methodology. Prior to joining CEU, she was a senior lecturer at the University of Geneva.Her main fields of interest are gender and politics, aging/old age and Alzheimer’s policies and interpretive methodologies. She is currently working on two projects (one applied and one research project) on old people’s political citizenship and how it can be supported through appropriate measures. This three-day workshop aims to introduce students and participants to the basics of social science discourse analysis, starting with an introduction to the theoretical and epistemological bases of discourses analysis, and moving on to practical exercises. Finally, it will consider various “schools” of discourse analysis and discuss the usefulness of discourse analytical work for various disciplines.WSSR Coordinator
514-848-2424 ext. 7854wssr@concordia.caDepartment of Political Science
1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Hall Building, 12th floor, H 1225-30
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8© Concordia UniversityContact us:
WSSR Coordinator
Department of Political Science
1455 de Maisonneuve W. - H-1225.30
Montreal, Quebec
H3G 1M8Telephone: 514-848-2424 x7854
Fax: 514-848-4072

wssr@concordia.caConcordia UniversityDr. Lea SgierWorkshops on Social Science Research (WSSR)
            
                Workshops on Social Science Research (WSSR)
            Contact usLocationAssistant Professor
Central European University (CEU)Upcoming WorkshopsPast WorkshopsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424with Dr. Lea Sgier, Assistant Professor Central European University (CEU)