http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/media-studies.htmlTraditional and emerging media technologies and platforms affect the way we perceive the world and our place in it. As producers and consumers of different forms of media, we are actively participating in an environment that gives agency to certain individuals, groups and movements over others. Now more than ever, we need academic researchers and creators to examine the social, political and cultural dimensions of various forms of media.The MA in Media Studies provides you with an environment to further your command of contemporary media culture, history and theory. Our renowned faculty members will supply you with an interdisciplinary formation to media studies that integrates knowledge based in the humanities, liberal arts, social sciences and fine arts.Our students benefit from an exceptionally active research culture led by a multitude of faculty research initiatives and creations. This vibrant setting will encourage and challenge you to pursue your own research interests in areas as varied as community activism, video games and feminist media.Our MA students are looking at topics such as:You may choose one of four options:Option IResearch and thesis: an independent, supervised thesis project of 20,000 to 25,000 words in length and submitted in written form at the end of the second year.Option IICourse work only: for students interested in advancing their professional or vocational development.Option IIIResearch-creation project: students with significant media production experience can undertake a research-creation project deploying one or more media forms, comprising an original media production or prototype in any genre and a 10,000 word document. The program does not provide media training.Option IVMajor research paper: an extended 10,000 word essay or project on a topic chosen in consultation with a full-time faculty member.Admission Requirements. Normally the candidate must have a bachelor’s degree in communication (or equivalent in a cognate area) with a minimum of 3.00 GPA. Experience in media or a media-related field is an asset. Applicants whose prior degrees are not from an English or French-speaking university are required to submit TOEFL scores. The minimum TOEFL iBT score required is 106 (or 623 for TOEFL PBT). Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be required to take up to 12 credits in addition to and as part of the regular graduate program. Applicants with deficiencies in their undergraduate preparation will normally be required to take qualifying course(s) as deemed appropriate by the program. Credits allowed for previous graduate work must be determined by the department and the university prior to entry to the program.Your completed application will include:Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures.Consult the graduate calendar for a complete list of current courses.Several awards and recruitment bursaries are available for new and current students, including the Communication Studies MA Graduate Scholarship, the Daniel Feist Memorial Scholarship and the Luigi Liberatore Graduate Entrance Scholarship.Research assistant positions also exist for funded research but cannot be guaranteed. Individual faculty members determine if work opportunities are available based on their own research budgets.Faculty of Arts and Science FellowshipsThe Faculty of Arts and Science supports graduate students by awarding one-year Masters fellowships ($7,000). Other awards available through the faculty include:Consideration for Entrance Awards is automatically part of the admissions process for all new students. We also encourage students seeking admission to our program to apply for funding from external sources in the final year of their undergraduate studies (e.g. FRQSC, SSHRC).Please also consult Concordia’s graduate funding page and Financial Aid and Awards.The department’s interdisciplinary faculty are known nationally and internationally for their scholarship. They regularly garner significant grants and fellowships for their contributions to the fields of communications, media studies, media arts, cultural studies and design art. They are also gaining acclaim for ground breaking research situated at the crossroads of fine arts, science and the humanities.Faculty interests include: Graduate students have access to the following facilities:Review an inspiring list of thesis topics and research-creation projects.Many of our alumni have gone on to successful careers in the media and cultural industries, working in a variety of capacities in digital media, film, television, gaming, radio and the arts. Graduates are also qualified to pursue media studies at the doctoral level.Email: Mircea.Mandache@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 5283Location: 
 7141 Sherbrooke St. W., CJ 3.245
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H4B 1R6Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityMedia Studies (MA)Program options & degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application process
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Funding
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty research
                
            
                
					
                    Facilities and Research centres
                
            
                
					
                    Emerging ideas — student projects
                
            
                
					
                    Your professional future
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a master's in Media Studies?Program DetailsRelated ProgramsMaster of Arts (MA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424