http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/events/artsci/polisci/wssr/2015/10/26/postelection2015.htmlOn October 26th at 6:30pm, join us to discuss and debate the consequences and repercussions of Canada’s 2015 federal election!
Moderated by Paul Wells from Maclean's Magazine and co-sponsored by Concordia's Workshops on Social Science Research (WSSR) and the Department of Political Science, this post-election panel will draw on the expertise of a variety of prominent pundits and seasoned specialists of Canadian politics.Following a long campaign period, extensive debates, and important battleground dynamics, the 2015 federal election is open to many questions. This panel will help answer many of these questions by dissecting the various crucial changes that have occurred since the 2011 election and the effects these have had on the results in 2015. It will explore the critical events that took place during the election (the debates, the ads, the blunders) and it will dig into the final results: what do they mean for the future of Canadian democracy? And what are their implications for various issues and policy areas in this country?Panelists will include several of CBC's Power and Politics panel guests: Ian Capstick (MediaStyle), John Duffy (StrategyCorp), and Tim Powers (Summa Strategies). Drawing on their election and campaign expertise as well as their extensive knowledge of politics in Canada, we will also welcome Dr. Brooke Jeffrey (Concordia University), Dr. Richard Johnston (University of British Columbia), and Dr. Lawrence LeDuc (University of Toronto).Participation in the event is free of charge, but spaces are limited and participants must register to attend. Please note that doors open at 6:00pm and will close at 6:30pm. This event will be live streamed on the CPAC website and live broadcasted on the CPAC network.© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
                        Election 2015: What does it all mean?with Paul WellsWorkshops on Social Science Research (WSSR)
            
                Workshops on Social Science Research (WSSR)
            Other WSSR EventsJoin the ConversationConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424