http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2016/11/30/psychology-occasional-negative-moods-can-positively-impact-student-success.htmlVersion française
For some, the start of December marks the beginning of the most wonderful time of the year. But for most university students, the coming weeks mean final exams, mounting stress and negative moods.While that doesn’t seem like an ideal combination for great grades, new Concordia research shows that the occasional bout of bad feelings can actually improve students’ academic success.A study published in Developmental Psychology by Erin Barker, professor of psychology in Concordia’s Faculty of Arts and Science, shows that students who were mostly happy during their four years of university but who also experienced occasional negative moods had the highest GPAs at the time of graduation.In contrast, the study also confirmed that students who experienced high levels of negative moods and low levels of positive moods often ended up with the lowest GPAs — a pattern consistent with depressive disorders.“Students often report feeling overwhelmed and experiencing high levels of anxiety and depressive symptoms,” says Barker, who is also a member of the Centre for Research in Human Development.“This study shows that we need to teach them strategies to both manage negative emotions and stress in productive ways, and to maintain positive emotional experiences.”For the study, Barker and her co-authors* worked with 187 first-year students at a large university. The researchers tracked the students throughout their four years of schooling by having them complete questionnaires about recent emotional experiences each year, beginning in the first year and continuing throughout their undergraduate degree.
 “We looked at students’ response patterns to better understand how experiences of positive and negative emotions occurred over time. We then combined average patterns to look how each person varied from their own average and examined different combinations of trait and state affects together,” Barker explains.“This allowed us to identify the pattern associated with the greatest academic success: those who were happy for the most part, but who also showed bouts of elevated negative moods.”These findings demonstrate that both negative and positive emotions play a role in our successes.“We often think that feeling bad is bad for us. But if you're generally a happy person, negative emotions can be motivating. They can signal to you that there is a challenge that you need to face. Happy people usually have coping resources and support that they draw on to meet that challenge.”In January, Barker and psychology graduate students Sarah Newcomb-Anjo and Kate Mulvihill will expand on this research by launching a new study focused on life beyond graduation. Their plan: examine patterns of emotional experience and well-being as former students navigate new challenges associated with finding work or entering a post-graduation program.
*Partners in research: This study was co-authored by Carsten Wrosch, professor of psychology in Concordia’s Faculty of Arts and Science, Andrea L. Howard from Carleton University and Nancy L. Galambos from the University of Alberta. The research was funded by a grant awarded to N. Galambos by the the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada. Read the cited study.Find out more about Concordia’s Department of Psychology. 
        13 essential tips for exam success
    
        Pet therapy: a calming canine caravan comes to Concordia
    
        How to beat exam stress
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityNew research: feeling bad has academic benefitsDepartment of Psychology
            
                Department of Psychology
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsLatest storiesMost popularOPINION: Big Pharma’s troubles are good news for innovationConcordia receives funding for 5 Canada Research ChairsThe fight against fake newsConcordia receives $2 million to advance smart-grid technology‘Student success is more gratifying than any prize’13 essential tips for exam successTo nap or not to nap? Sleep tips for ConcordiansJason Camlot wins the Donald Gray Prize for best Victorian Studies essay‘We are conducting research in a living lab’What's it like to meet  the Oracle of Omaha?Negative emotions signal a challengeFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/fr/actualites/central/communiques-de-presse/2016/11/30/psychology-occasional-negative-moods-can-positively-impact-student-success.html
Montréal, le 30 novembre 2016 – Pour certaines personnes, l’arrivée de décembre marque le début du joyeux temps des fêtes. Mais pour la plupart des étudiants universitaires, les semaines à venir sont plutôt synonymes d’examens, de stress et d’humeur noire.Or, bien qu’au premier abord, chagrin et bonnes notes ne semblent pas aller de pair, de nouvelles recherches menées à l’Université Concordia montrent qu’en fait, les périodes occasionnelles de morosité peuvent améliorer la réussite scolaire.Selon une étude publiée dans la revue Developmental Psychology par Erin Barker, professeure de psychologie à la Faculté des arts et des sciences de Concordia, les étudiants qui sont globalement heureux durant leurs quatre années d’université, mais connaissent aussi des humeurs négatives occasionnelles, obtiennent leur diplôme avec la moyenne pondérée cumulative la plus élevée.En revanche, les étudiants qui présentent un fort degré d’humeurs négatives et un faible degré d’humeurs positives terminent souvent leurs études avec la moyenne pondérée cumulative la plus faible, un schéma qui cadre avec le tableau des troubles dépressifs.« Les étudiants déclarent souvent avoir le sentiment d’être débordés, éprouver une grande anxiété et ressentir les symptômes de la dépression », affirme la professeure Barker, qui est également membre du Centre de recherche en développement humain.« Nos travaux mettent en évidence la nécessité de leur enseigner des stratégies pour gérer de façon constructive les émotions négatives et le stress, ainsi que pour cultiver les expériences émotionnelles positives. »Pour mener à bien l’étude, Erin Barker et ses collaborateurs* ont travaillé avec 187 étudiantes et étudiants en première année du premier cycle dans une grande université, qu’ils ont suivis tout au long des quatre ans de leur cursus. Chaque année, ils leur ont demandé de répondre à des questionnaires sur leurs expériences émotionnelles récentes.
 « Nous avons analysé les schémas de réponse des étudiants pour mieux comprendre comment les expériences émotionnelles positives et négatives survenaient au fil du temps, explique Erin Barker. Nous avons ensuite rapproché les schémas moyens pour voir comment chaque personne s’éloignait de sa propre moyenne, puis examiné différentes combinaisons d’affects habituels et d’affects ponctuels. »« Ainsi, nous avons pu isoler le schéma associé à la plus grande réussite scolaire : le fait d’être heureux la plupart du temps et d’éprouver occasionnellement une forte morosité. »Ces résultats indiquent que les émotions négatives, tout comme celles qui sont positives, jouent un rôle dans nos réussites.« On croit souvent qu’il n’est pas bon de se sentir mal. Toutefois, pour une personne généralement heureuse, les émotions négatives peuvent être stimulantes. Elles peuvent être le signe d’une difficulté à surmonter. Les gens heureux disposent généralement des ressources et du soutien nécessaires pour y arriver. »En janvier, Erin Barker et deux de ses étudiantes aux cycles supérieurs en psychologie, Sarah Newcomb-Anjo et Kate Mulvihill, approfondiront cette recherche en menant une nouvelle étude axée sur la vie après l’obtention d’un diplôme. Leur plan : observer les expériences émotionnelles et le bien-être chez des diplômés qui abordent les défis liés à la recherche d’un emploi ou à l’inscription dans un programme d’études supérieures.* Partenaires de recherche : Carsten Wrosch, professeur de psychologie à la Faculté des arts et des sciences de Concordia, Andrea L. Howard de l’Université Carleton et Nancy L. Galambos de l’Université de l’Alberta ont participé à cette recherche en tant que cochercheurs. Celle-ci a bénéficié d’une subvention octroyée à Nancy L. Galambos par le Conseil de recherches en sciences humaines du Canada.Rechercher un expert apte à commenter tout sujetEntrer une expression ou un mot-clé© Université ConcordiaConcordia UniversityLa morosité a ses avantages sur le plan de la réussite scolaireLiens connexesJoignez-vous à la conversationLes émotions négatives sont le signe d’une difficulté à surmonterSourceTrouver un expertUniversité Concordia - Contactez-nous au 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/releases/2016/11/30/psychology-occasional-negative-moods-can-positively-impact-student-success.html
Montreal, November 30, 2016 — For some, the start of December marks the beginning of the most wonderful time of the year. But for most university students, the coming weeks mean final exams, mounting stress and negative moods.While that doesn’t seem like an ideal combination for great grades, new Concordia research shows that the occasional bout of bad feelings can actually improve students’ academic success.A study published in Developmental Psychology by Erin Barker, professor of psychology in Concordia’s Faculty of Arts and Science, shows that students who were mostly happy during their four years of university but who also experienced occasional negative moods had the highest GPAs at the time of graduation.In contrast, the study also confirmed that students who experienced high levels of negative moods and low levels of positive moods often ended up with the lowest GPAs — a pattern consistent with depressive disorders.“Students often report feeling overwhelmed and experiencing high levels of anxiety and depressive symptoms,” says Barker, who is also a member of the Centre for Research in Human Development.“This study shows that we need to teach them strategies to both manage negative emotions and stress in productive ways, and to maintain positive emotional experiences.”For the study, Barker and her co-authors* worked with 187 first-year students at a large university. The researchers tracked the students throughout their four years of schooling by having them complete questionnaires about recent emotional experiences each year, beginning in the first year and continuing throughout their undergraduate degree.
 “We looked at students’ response patterns to better understand how experiences of positive and negative emotions occurred over time. We then combined average patterns to look how each person varied from their own average and examined different combinations of trait and state affects together,” Barker explains.“This allowed us to identify the pattern associated with the greatest academic success: those who were happy for the most part, but who also showed bouts of elevated negative moods.”These findings demonstrate that both negative and positive emotions play a role in our successes.“We often think that feeling bad is bad for us. But if you're generally a happy person, negative emotions can be motivating. They can signal to you that there is a challenge that you need to face. Happy people usually have coping resources and support that they draw on to meet that challenge.”In January, Barker and psychology graduate students Sarah Newcomb-Anjo and Kate Mulvihill will expand on this research by launching a new study focused on life beyond graduation. Their plan: examine patterns of emotional experience and well-being as former students navigate new challenges associated with finding work or entering a post-graduation program.
*Partners in research: This study was co-authored by Carsten Wrosch, professor of psychology in Concordia’s Faculty of Arts and Science, Andrea L. Howard from Carleton University and Nancy L. Galambos from the University of Alberta. The research was funded by a grant awarded to N. Galambos by the the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada. Read the cited study.Find out more about Concordia’s Department of Psychology. Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityNew research: feeling bad has academic benefitsNews
            
                News
            Related LinksJoin the conversationNegative emotions signal a challengeSourceFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424