http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/offices/vpaer/aar/2016/08/23/shuffle-27-gives-students-a-leg-up.htmlThere’s no denying that the cost of university can be taxing for students. At the 27th annual Shuffle on September 23, 2016, the Concordia community will band together to change that for as many as possible.“It was a really exciting day for me,” says Nancy Pettinicchio, a student in Concordia’s Department of Communication Studies, on receiving a Shuffle Entrance Scholarship last year. “I got it the same day as my university acceptance, and I got a job that day — it was a bit of an overload!”The university’s confidence in Pettinicchio brought her a great feeling of recognition. “There are a lot of students like me who make education our top priority and often put other things to the side to do our best,” she says.“When the school you’re attending recognizes that and provides you with some help financially, it’s really encouraging.”“I was able to focus on school and work fewer hours,” says Lukesh Prashar, another of last year’s Shuffle Entrance Scholarship recipients. “To be able to do well in school was the biggest advantage.”Fundraising initiatives like the Shuffle give students a chance to get ahead, in Prashar’s view. “Many of my friends could do better in school, but they’re working 20 hours a week,” says Prashar, who’s studying in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering.Each year the Shuffle unites staff, faculty, students, alumni and friends for the 6.5-km walkathon from Sir George Williams Campus to Loyola Campus in support of student scholarships and bursaries. For those who don’t walk, run or cycle the distance, there are many other ways to support the initiative, including sponsoring a Shuffler or team, or making a gift or challenge gift.After the walk, Shufflers kick back at the President’s Picnic on the lawn in front of the PERFORM Centre. The fundraiser ends with a meal and prize draw.“The real prize is seeing everyone come out and support what’s really important — our students,” says Danielle Tessier, assistant secretary-general of the University Secretariat, who was named the 2014 Shuffler of the Year. Tessier and Concordia’s interim provost and vice-president of Research and Graduate Studies, Graham Carr, are co-chairs of the Shuffle organizing committee this year.      Since it began in 1990, the Shuffle has raised close to $1.3 million for scholarships and bursaries. That money has made attending university more accessible for more than 750 students across the years.“I would just like to say thank you from myself and anyone else who’s received a bursary or scholarship,” says Pettinicchio. “It’s so special that a community can come together to take pride in a walk that supports students who are dedicated to their education.”Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityShuffle 27 gives students a leg-upNews
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated topics#CUshuffle  #CUgivingFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424