http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/music/programs/undergraduate/specialization-jazz-bfa.htmlRhythm, syncopation, improvisation . . . Jazz lets you swing as a virtuoso soloist and a member of a tight ensemble of musicians pushing each other further. The mental agility you develop as a jazz musician is matched only by your dexterity as a performer, your audacity as a composer, and your skills as an arranger.Students in the Jazz Studies program, the first university-level jazz program created in Canada, have a unique opportunity to become fully immersed in the sounds and traditions of a 100 year-old art form that’s truly modern and still evolving. From jazz language and composition to theory classes, you’ll learn music in an environment that’s grounded in the traditions and leading the next wave.In the heart of downtown Montreal, a vibrant metropolis with a deep jazz tradition, you’ll have enormous opportunity for cross-pollination with other university-level jazz students across the city. And you’ll be in a rich environment for jamming and seeing the best acts in the world perform at one of the city’s jazz clubs.A Bachelor of Fine Arts degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background.Concentrations:Annual Capacity: 20 (fall admission only)Cegep Profile: No specific profile required.Additional RequirementsIt is the applicant’s responsibility to upload the video audition online by the prescribed deadline. Test results are sent after the audition has been evaluated. See additional admissions requirements for audition instructions.Please remember:For more information on these additional requirements, please read the following: Minimum Cut-off Averages should be used as indicators. Data may change depending on the quality of the application pool. Admission to the Faculty of Fine Arts is very competitive. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Admission to most programs is based on portfolio/audition evaluations as well as academic grades. Applicants selected for admission have normally achieved grades that exceed minimum requirements.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.March 1Certain programs have extended their deadlines. Please check program availability.N/AAdmission to this program is only available for the Fall Term.
 We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.Sample classesFor a list of required courses, please download the Program Guide according to your year of entry. Consult the Undergraduate Calendar for a complete list of current Music courses.Schedules for courses are available on the class schedules website.Our students benefit from a dedicated suite of classroom and performances spaces designed to foster creative collaboration. We’re proud to offer spaces where you can develop your creativity and your abilities as an artist. Enjoy an array of professional facilities and equipment, including:Read more about our music facilities.Whether you’re an instrumental or voice student, jazz or classical, you can perform in both large and small ensembles. The department holds many performances throughout the year in university venues and around Montreal such as:Visit our events page for upcoming concert dates.Your hard work while at Concordia will give you the knowledge and discipline to further your solo work, plus the teamwork skills to collaborate with others. Our alumni compose, perform, tour, produce original CDs, and write for theatre, dance, film, TV and video games; their cultural work has been recognized through awards and prizes.Your degree can lead to many paths such as:© Concordia UniversityAbout the department
Programs
Research & creation
Facilities
Student life
News & events
 Contact usConcordia UniversitySpecialization in Jazz StudiesDepartment of Music
            
                Department of Music
            Key resourcesJoin the ConversationProgram options & degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Facilities
                
            
                
					
                    In performance
                
            
                
					
                    After your degreeWhy choose Jazz Studies?Program detailsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Minimum cut-off averages