http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2016/10/13/students-explain-why-they-chose-concordia.html
The university throws open its doors for Open House on Saturday, October 29, to give prospective students a chance to experience life at Concordia – and figure out whether it’s the right fit for them.The decision of where to spend your university years is a big one. We asked 11 students and alumni why they chose Concordia. “The cost of living is a huge draw,” says jazz studies alumna and Montreal transplant Anuschka Wright (BFA 16), originally from Nassau, Bahamas.“When you compare the price of an apartment in Montreal to New York City, it’s a no-brainer.”“Concordia was the only school that I applied to that actually made me feel welcome,” says translation student Abigail Candelora, from Georgetown, Ontario.“My visit to campus was an hour tops. In that time, more people took an interest in my learning than every other school I applied to combined.”“My family came to Canada in 1626 and my great-grandfather and grandmother came to the United States in 1924,” says Cam Morin, who grew up in Nashua, New Hampshire.“I wanted to return to Montreal to study French and live in the land my family called home for 300 years.”
 Collège Gérald-Godin graduate Pierre-Claude Junior Gacette-Sanon wanted to continue his education in his second language.“Just getting into the culture at Concordia, through student organizations or group projects, improves your English,” says the accounting and finance student.Gacette-Sanon is also the director of external affairs for the John Molson Accounting Society.Buffalo, New York native Trenton Miller got the call from Stingers football head coach Mickey Donovan.When he’s not scoring touchdowns, Trenton is working on his MBA at the John Molson School of Business (JMSB) and acting as a mentor to budding entrepreneurs at Concordia’s startup incubator, District 3.
 “I was looking for a university outside of Brazil that would provide me with a good education at a good price,” says computer science major Caio Paiva.He has been investing his time in learning French at Concordia, and it’s paying off. Paiva recently added a minor in Études françaises.
 “What really sold me on Concordia was the Institute for Co-operative Education,” says alumnus Bedra Attabibi (BEng 16). “It’s a must. Employers I’ve worked for tell me they love Concordia students because of our work ethic and our skills.”They really love her too: Bedra landed a job with flight simulation giant CAE before she graduated this spring.“JMSB is considered one of the best business schools in the world.” Enough said for economics major Alexandre Karlov.Concordia has hundreds of other flexible academic programs, as well.“When you’re around people with different opinions, you grow,” says biochemistry major Noraldin Al-Deri, who moved to Montreal from Amman, Jordan.“I came to animation without any knowledge of how to animate and now I consider myself a good animator,” says Montrealer and film animation major Marielle Dalpé.“I loved my three years here and I feel ready to go out into the world.”“My main reason for choosing Concordia was the atmosphere I felt when I visited the university,” says political science major Shanna Camilleri.“A great team of advisors helped me all the way through my application.” Attend Concordia's Open House on Saturday, October 29.Find out more about Concordia's programs and admissions requirements.
  
        Convocation preview: 4 great grads, in numbers
    
        All systems go! It's Concordia Open House 2016
    
        This new GradProSkills leadership series is the first of its kind in Canada
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityWhy did you choose Concordia? Here are 11 great reasonsDiplômés et amis
            
                Diplômés et amis
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsLatest storiesMost popularOPINION: Big Pharma’s troubles are good news for innovationConcordia receives funding for 5 Canada Research ChairsThe fight against fake newsConcordia receives $2 million to advance smart-grid technology‘Student success is more gratifying than any prize’13 essential tips for exam successTo nap or not to nap? Sleep tips for ConcordiansJason Camlot wins the Donald Gray Prize for best Victorian Studies essay‘We are conducting research in a living lab’What's it like to meet  the Oracle of Omaha?1. The joie de vivre in one of the world’s great cities — even on a student budget
2. The vibe on campus
3. A Quebec connection
 4. To study in English
5. The Stingers called6. A good return on investment
 7. Paid work experience
8. Strong programs
9. To find a diverse community
10. To develop as an artist
11. Academic supportFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424