http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/journalism/research/theses.htmlThe MA in Journalism Studies offers future scholars the ideal platform to study journalism from a critical research perspective. Below are theses titles of our graduates.Geoffery Tobin (2014). "Registering Justice: A critical discourse of daily newspaper coverage surrounding key queer rights changes between 1992-2005" (Dr. James McLean, supervisor).Harry Chandler (2014). "The Third World First Nations Reserve: Framing Crises on First Nations Reserves in Canadia Newspaper Coverage" (Dr. Brian Gabrial, supervisor).James Gibbons (2013). "How the news expresses exclusion: A linguistic analysis of two Montreal newspapers and their coverage of the Occupy movement." (Dr. Mike Gasher, supervisor).Alamir Novin (2013). "DEBATECITED: An empirical experiment into the value of open-source research methods and peer collaboration to science journalism." (Dr. David Secko, supervisor).Haluk Dag (2013). "Peace journalism or war journalism? A comparative analysis of the coverage of Israeli and Turkish newspapers during the Gaza flotilla crisis." (Dr. Mike Gasher, supervisor). Anna Meshcherova (2012). "The Globalization of Stubbornly National Media: The How and Why of Online News Translation." (Dr. Lisa Lynch, supervisor). Paul Edward Fontaine (2012). "The Punjabi diaspora in a time of media hybridization: The empowering of 'counterpublics'." (Dr. Lisa Lynch, supervisor). Peter W. Downie. (2012) "The Renewal of Journalistic Practice: Reporting from the 2010 Haitian Earthquake." (Dr. James McLean, supervisor).Stephany Tlalka (2012). "'Know more, know now': a structural analysis of the re-design of CBC News, 2009-2011." (Dr. Mike Gasher, supervisor). Elyse Amend. (2011). "In search of models: An investigation into the practical use of models of science communication in science journalism production." (Dr. David Secko, supervisor). Gabriela Capurro. (2011). "Covering the Two Amigos: Neo-colonial representations of Canada and Mexico in their national press." (Dr. Lisa Lynch, supervisor). If you would like  information about the MA in Journalism studies, feel free to contact us masters.journalism@concordia.caMA Program Director
Dr. Mike Gasher© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityStudent researchDepartment of Journalism
            
                Department of Journalism
            Questions?Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424