http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/polisci/wssr/wssr-calendar.htmlThe Department of Political Science has proudly organized the annual Workshops on Social Science Research since 2008.  These worksops are now offered twice a year in both Winter and Spring.The WSSR workshops are short, intensive learning experiences and networking opportunities that allow you to develop your critical thinking skills, make new contacts, and succeed as future decision makers.Come learn from influential public figures and renowned academics about democratic governance, public policy, and research methodology.This year the WSSR will be celebrating Canada's 150th birthday with a series of thought-provoking and inspirational workshops and events exploring the state of democracy.514-848-2424 ext. 7854wssr@concordia.caJoin Paul Wells (Maclean's Magazine), Ian Capstick (MediaStyle), John Duffy (StrategyCorp), Tim Powers (Summa Strategies), Dr. Richard Johnston (University of British Columbia), Dr. Lawrence LeDuc (University of Toronto), and Dr. Brooke Jeffrey (Concordia University) to discuss and debate the consequences and repercussions of Canada’s 2015 federal election!<br><br>Watch it on CPAC here: http://www.cpac.ca/en/programs/public-record/episodes/45234087/Citizenship, Democracy and Justice in Multicultural Societies: Empirical and Normative Insights
In this two-day workshop, Professor Gianni will take you deep into the ongoing controversial debate about the accommodation of minority groups in Europe and North-America. The timing of this workshop couldn't be better as it follows almost immediately on the heels of a provincial election in Quebec. Managing elections is no easy task. In this one-day workshop, Quebec's directeur général des elections, Jacques Drouin, will walk you through exactly what is involved and cover topics such as political financing, voter turnout, the use of technology, and accessibility.

How fair are elections in Canada? Why do young people vote infrequently and what can we do about it? These are very real concerns and this two-day workshop gives you an opportunity to discuss them with British Columbia’s current Chief Electoral Officer, Keith Archer.
With all the political scandals of late, the notion of ethical governance would appear to be going out of style. Or is it? In this one-day workshop, Canada’s current Conflict of Interest and Ethics Commissioner will present her perspectives on the matter based on her first-hand experience.This workshop will provide you with many inside details on parliamentary process and procedures. It will cover the structure of Parliament, how laws are made, and what potential reform could bring.In February of 2013, Dr. Flanagan made certain comments about child pornography that were tweeted from an academic event that he was speaking at and almost instantly broadcast worldwide. Within a very short span of time, Dr. Flanagan was cast as a pariah. In this two-day workshop, Dr. Flanagan will detail his experience and its implications for free speech in the Internet age.As a Montrealer, you are surely aware of the welter of municipal corruption allegations that have been circulating. But how well do you know the city of Montreal? What issues must municipal governments contend with? Should certain things be rethought? What can we do to make the House of Commons a more democratic institution? And how can we make it more representative of our interests? In this one-day workshop, Conservative MP and former Cabinet Minister, Michael Chong, provides his take on these matters.
What can we do to make the House of Commons a more democratic institution? And how can we make it more representative of our interests? Come and join Conservative MP and former Cabinet Minister, Michael Chong as he provides you with his take on these matters.This two-day workshop will introduce students to some of the most relevant environmental issues and challenges we face both globally and domestically. It will also provide students with a more practical understanding of the politics of the environment, and the realities involved.
The timing could not be better, finding the right balance between sustainability and economic development is a critical challenge that faces future generations.This two-day workshop intends to provide students and researchers with the theoretical and practical knowledge necessary to design and conduct focus groups and semi-structured interviews while avoiding the most common problems encountered with qualitative research. This workshop will also provide opportunities for participants to apply their knowledge through practical exercises.It's clear that natural resources are a fundamental driver of the Canadian economy. But what happens when natural resource development comes with potential environmental consequences and public opposition?In this two-day workshop you will discuss the relevance of natural resources for the Canadian economy, focusing largely on the oil sands in Alberta. This is a very timely topic and this workshop promises to deliver important insights. Stockwell Day has been directly involved in this process and has the inside story.This three-day workshop aims to introduce students and participants to the basics of social science discourse analysis, starting with an introduction to the theoretical and epistemological bases of discourses analysis, and moving on to practical exercises. Finally, it will consider various “schools” of discourse analysis and discuss the usefulness of discourse analytical work for various disciplines.Every crisis offers unanticipated surprises and lessons to be learned.In this two-day workshop, Mr. Hughes lays out the primary considerations in framing, shaping, and implementing social welfare policy. In addition, Mr. Hughes will also demonstrate how taking a bipartisan approach can lead to policy success.What should we make of all that has transpired of late? Is the Senate doomed? Does it need change? What exactly does this institution do? In this one-day workshop, the current Leader of the Opposition in the Senate covers it all, from scandal to independent Senators.Senator James Cowan, Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, takes you inside the Senate – its politics, culture, troubles, and successes – and the possibilities for its future.In this two-day workshop, one of Canada's best known pollsters, Bruce Anderson, attempts to make sense of where the polling industry may be going wrong. You don't want to miss this!In this one-day workshop, Clerk of the Senate and the Clerk of the Parliaments, Dr. Gary W. O’Brien provides his frontline perspective on the situation at hand. If the Senate scandal’s got you concerned, this is the workshop for you so register today!
This three-day workshop will introduce you to the case study methods, including small-n comparative methods, and within-case analysis using congruence and process-tracing methods. Dr. Beach will discuss their benefits and drawbacks, and how they can be combined to create robust designs that enable strong causal inferences to be made.This five-day workshop, offered through the ICPSR Summer Program in Quantitative Methods of Social Research, seeks to introduce participants to bivariate and multiple regression models.

This two-day workshop centers squarely on Canada’s electoral system. The First-Past-The-Post approach to deciding elections has been the subject of much debate in Canada. Is electoral reform in Canada possible? And, would it make a difference?
Indian Residential Schools – assimilation and abuse as education policy. Canada and its Christian churches ran these schools for a century. They led to thousands of lawsuits and the largest settlement of a class action in Canadian history. Part of that settlement created the Truth and Reconciliation Commission.In this two-day workshop led by Chief Justice Sinclair and the Truth and Reconciliation Commission's General Counsel, Tom McMahon, you will be walked through the history of Indian Residential Schools, the lawsuits, the Settlement Agreement and the work of Canada’s only Truth and Reconciliation Commission. In this two-day workshop, former watchdog and civil servant, Canada's first Parliamentary Budget Officer, Kevin Page, shares with you his years of oversight on the costing of government policies, federal programs, and proposals.In this one-day workshop, students and participants will get the inside scoop on principled leadership and politics from former Premier of Ontario, Dalton McGuinty. What have many years of experience in a major leadership role led Mr. McGuinty to conclude about governing and leadership in the 21st Century? 

This five-day workshop, offered through the ICPSR Summer Program in Quantitative Methods of Social Research, will teach students how to conduct multivariate analyses of social, economic and political data. Several valuable tools for academic researchers in the social sciences and analysts in the public and private sectors will be considered.
This two-day workshop offers a timely and unique opportunity to learn from and interact with one of Canada’s most established and prominent public servants. Mel Cappe, former Clerk of the Privy Council and Secretary to the Cabinet provides his perspectives on the role of government.In this two-day workshop, Senior Political Writer for the Toronto Star, Susan Delacourt walks you through the fascinating analysis presented in her new book Shopping for Votes. Her take on voting and elections in Canada is well-sourced and the results of her analysis are concerning to say the least, particularly for those who value democracy and the democratic process.

In this two-day workshop, Jean-Pierre Kingsley, former Chief Electoral Officer of Canada, synthesizes what his experiences have taught him about the current state of Canadian democracy and what he sees as being necessary electoral and democratic reforms. If you think that Canadian democracy and elections require some adjusting, you won’t want to miss this workshop.
Hurricane Sandy. Katrina. The BP oil spill. These were all disaster situations in need of disaster management. Professor Saundra Schneider from Michigan State University will take you beyond the sensationalistic media headlines and address what goes on during and after something has gone terribly wrong. The objective of this two-day workshop is to provide students of social policy with an analytical lens to grasp the impact of territorial identities and institutions on social programs such as Medicare and old-age pensions.Environmental initiatives in urban settings are of increasing importance for preserving quality of life for future generations. In this one-day workshop, former Mayor of Toronto, David Miller, focuses on sustainable development in the city, and how the prioritization of green living can benefit urban economies.In this two-day workshop, Professor Gianni will take you deep into the ongoing controversial debate about the accommodation of minority groups in Europe and North-America.In this two-day workshop, Professor Jacoby from Michigan State University and the ICPSR, will show you how to display your quantitative data analysis and the difference between good and bad graphic presentations for univariate, bivariate and multivariate data analyses.In this two-day workshop, Graham Fraser, Canada's current Commissioner of Official Languages will provide you with detailed and fascinating insights about Canada's bilingualism policy.In this two-day workshop, Professor Pippa Norris from the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University will share with you some findings from the Electoral Integrity Project. Don’t miss this opportunity to engage with one of Political Science’s most prolific scholars on this crucial subject.© Concordia UniversityContact us:
WSSR Coordinator
Department of Political Science
1455 de Maisonneuve W. - H-1225.30
Montreal, Quebec
H3G 1M8Telephone: 514-848-2424 x7854
Fax: 514-848-4072

wssr@concordia.caConcordia UniversityWSSR Workshops and EventsWorkshops on Social Science Research (WSSR)
            
                Workshops on Social Science Research (WSSR)
            Workshops - Winter 2017Workshops - Spring 2017Events - 2017Questions?Workshops - Winter 2017Workshops - Spring 2017Events - 2017Past Workshops and EventsJune 2016May 2016April 2016March 2016February 2016January 2016October 2015June 2015May 2015May 2014June 2014July 2014Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424with Jean-Pierre Kingsley, Former Chief Electoral Officer of Canadawith Dr. Avigail Eisenberg, Professor, University of Victoriawith Honourable Don Boudria, Former Government House Leader with Dr. Keith Archer, Chief Electoral Officer of British Columbiawith Honourable Senator James S. Cowan, Senate Liberal Leaderwith Dr. Matteo Gianni, Associate Professor, University of Genevawith Michael Ferguson, Auditor General of Canadawith Honourable Stockwell Day, Former President of the Treasury Boardwith Honourable Joan Fraser, Chair of the Senate Standing Committee on Rules, Procedures and the Rights of Parliamentwith Dr. Diana L. Gustafson, Professor, Memorial Universitywith Amanda Alvaro, Political Commentator and Co Founder at Pomp & Circumstancewith Honourable Michelle Rempel, Member of Parliament, Calgary Nose Hillwith Honourable Justice John Gomery, Former Superior Court of Quebec Judge and Public Inquiry Commissionerwith Dr. Patti Tamara Lenard, Associate Professor, University of Ottawawith Dr. Harold Clarke, Ashbel Smith Professor, University of Texas at Dallaswith Lord Bhikhu Parekh, Emeritus Professor and Member of the UK House of Lordswith Kevin Page, Former Parliamentary Budget Officer of Canadawith Mel Cappe, Former Clerk of the Privy Councilwith Dr. John Courtney, Senior Policy Fellow, University of Saskatchewanwith Ian Capstick, Managing Partner of MediaStylewith Dr. Guy Peters, Maurice Falk Professor of Government at the University of Pittsburghwith Martin Patriquin, Quebec Bureau Chief, Maclean's Magazinewith Charles Robert, Clerk of the Senate and Clerk of the Parliamentswith Dr. David J. Bercuson, Director, Centre for Military, Security and Strategic Studies and Associate Director, International Programs, University of Calgary School of Public Policywith Dr. Keith Banting Stauffer Dunning Fellow and Professor Emeritus, Queen's UniversityandDr. Richard Johnston Professor and Canada Research Chair in Public Opinion, Elections, and Representation, University of British Columbiawith Dr. Melissa Williams, Professor and Founding Director of the Centre for Ethics at the University of Torontowith Tim Powers Vice-Chairman of Summa Strategieswith Dr. Hans-Dieter Klingemann Professor Emeritus, Social Science Research Centre Berlin (WZB)with Dr. Lawrence LeDuc, Professor Emeritus University of Toronto and Dr. Jon Pammett, Professor Carleton Universitywith Dr. Benjamin R. Barber, Distinguished Senior Fellow, Fordham University Urban Consortium President and Founder, The Global Parliament of Mayors Projectwith Yves Côté, Commissioner of Canada Electionswith Dr. Matteo Gianni, Associate Professor, University of GenevaHonourable Senator James S. Cowan, Senate Liberal LeaderThe Right Honourable Beverley McLachlin, P.C., Chief Justice of CanadaLord Bhikhu Parekh, Emeritus Professor and Member of the UK House of LordsDr. Keith Banting, Stauffer Dunning Fellow and Professor Emeritus, Queen's UniversityDr. Richard Johnston, Professor and Canada Research Chair in Public Opinion, Elections, and Representation, University of British Columbiawith Dr. Lawrence LeDuc, Professor Emeritus University of Toronto
            with Dr. Matteo Gianni, Associate Professor University of Geneva
            with Dr. Richard Johnston, Professor University of British Columbia
            with Dr. Daniel Weinstock, Director of the McGill Institute for Health and Social Policy
            with Martin Patriquin, Quebec Bureau Chief for Maclean's Magazine
            with Honourable Michael Chong, Member of Parliament
            with Dr. Robert Adcock, Professorial Lecturer American University's School of International Service
            with Tim Powers, Vice-Chairman of Summa Strategies
            with Ian Capstick, Managing Partner of MediaStyle
            with Dr. Frederic Schaffer, Professor, University of Massachusetts Amherst
            with Kevin Page, Former Parliamentary Budget Officer of Canada
            with Professor Dvora Yanow, Wageningen University
            with Maureen McTeer, Canadian Lawyer and Author
            with Dr. Lea Sgier, Assistant Professor Central European University (CEU)
            with Dr. Derek Beach, Professor University of Aarhus, Denmark
            with Mel Cappe, Former Clerk of the Privy Council
            with Sébastien Dallaire, Vice President of Ipsos Public Affairs
            with Dr. Andrew Bennett, Professor of Government Georgetown University
            with Dr. Harold Clarke, Professor, University of Texas at Dallas and Dr. Guy Whitten, Professor, Texas A&M University
            with Honourable Don Boudria, Former Government House Leader
            with Dr. Jason Seawright, Associate Professor Northwestern University
            A Panel Discussion with Auditor General Michael Fergusonand Conflict of Interest and Ethics Commissioner Mary Dawson- Moderated by Martin Patriquin, Maclean's Magazine