http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/events/artsci/polisci/wssr/2016/05/15/yanowworkshop.htmlThis workshop explores the historical and methodological background leading to what today are increasingly being called “interpretive” methods. We will be more practical than philosophical, in the sense that we will tie the methodological underpinnings of interpretive methods to the doing of research, although we will focus more on field (contemporary) than archival (historical) research.
 
 The workshop will take up:We will focus on the methodological thinking that undergirds the three methods for generating data (observing, with whatever degree of participating; talk, including formal interviewing; and the identification and close “reading,” literal and figurative, of research-relevant documents and visual materials). To ground our discussions of what can be very abstract material, we will work to generate our own observational and conversational data for exploration, using the city and university as our “lab.” Click here to find out more about the WSSR's collaboration with the ECPR.
© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
                        Introduction to Interpretive (-qualitative) Methodologies and Methods with Professor Dvora Yanow, Wageningen UniversityWorkshops on Social Science Research (WSSR)
            
                Workshops on Social Science Research (WSSR)
            Other WSSR EventsJoin the ConversationConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424with Professor Dvora Yanow, Wageningen University
                   	with Dr. Frederic Schaffer, Professor, University of Massachusetts Amherstwith Dr. Derek Beach, Professor University of Aarhus, Denmarkwith Dr. Lea Sgier, Assistant Professor Central European University (CEU)with Sébastien Dallaire, Vice President of Ipsos Public Affairswith Dr. Andrew Bennett, Professor of Government Georgetown Universityhttp://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/events/artsci/polisci/wssr/2015/05/19/yanowworkshop.htmlThis course explores the historical and methodological background leading to what today are increasingly being called “interpretive” methods. We will be more practical than philosophical, in the sense that we will tie the methodological underpinnings of interpretive methods to the doing of research, although we will focus more on field (contemporary) than archival (historical) research.

The course will take up:We will focus on the methodological thinking that undergirds the three methods for generating data (observing, with whatever degree of participating; talk, including formal interviewing; and the identification and close “reading,” literal and figurative, of research-relevant documents and visual materials). To ground our discussions of what can be very abstract material, we will work to generate our own observational and conversational data for exploration, using the city and university as our “lab.”© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
                        Introduction to Interpretive (-qualitative)Methodologies and MethodsEvents
            
                Events
            Join the ConversationConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424