http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2016/11/14/mary-anne-poutanen-wins-prix-lionel-groulx-for-book-on-19th-century-prostitution.html
From the Supreme Court’s 2013 decision to strike down existing laws regarding sex work to Montreal mayor Denis Coderre’s efforts to close erotic massage parlours in the city, the relationship between law enforcement, prostitutes and those who solicit them remains a complex societal issue.

These dynamics are not new in Montreal — as detailed in a new book by Mary Anne Poutanen, affiliate history professor in Concordia’s Faculty of Arts and Science.Beyond Brutal Passions: Prostitution in Early Nineteenth-Century Montreal won the 2016 Prix Lionel-Groulx, the most prestigious award offered by the Institut d'histoire de l'Amérique française.We sat down with Poutanen to find out more about her research.Mary Anne Poutanen: Montreal was a city that was growing rapidly as it moved towards the industrial revolution. There was a large influx of immigrants arriving.Many sex workers who were deemed “street walkers” were often single Irish immigrants in need of resources, but really they came from all segments of society and were a diverse group.They were mothers, daughters, sisters and wives who led complex lives. Like any other Montrealer, they contributed to the economy and served as ambassadresses to the men who arrived here.MP: It varied. Those deemed as “street walkers” were more easily charged and found guilty because they were tried in police courts and it was their word against that of the police officers who arrested them. However, not all those charged with prostitution were actually sex workers. Many were simply drunk in public or homeless and deemed vagrants.In other instances residents would complain about a brothel operating in their neighbourhood. These complaints would be privately prosecuted in front of a justice of the peace. Often the plaintiff would not show up and the charges would eventually be dropped.What is key here is that punishment — or the threat of punishment — was a means of disciplining women’s behaviour and especially their sexuality, whether they were “street walkers” working in a brothel or in some cases not sex workers at all. It was a means to get them in line with what society deemed to be acceptable.MP: Essentially, my study was about listening to the voices of sex workers from a different era. The same thing needs to be done today.

Just as was the case in the 19th century, women who are involved in prostitution are not a homogeneous group living on the margins of society. They are individuals from all walks of life who choose sex work for different reasons.As a society, we need to listen to sex workers so that we can build neighbourhoods and communities with them and not despite them. We also need policies and laws so that the work they do is safer. Today’s laws that punish men who buy sex do not make sex work a less dangerous endeavour for women.
Find out more about Concordia’s Department of History.            
        Cherry Smiley: Concordia’s latest Trudeau scholar
    
        Prostitution: a feminist perspective
    
        ‘I know of no better way in which to absorb your attention’
    
        Why Quebec doesn’t celebrate Victoria Day
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityConcordia's Mary Anne Poutanen lands the Prix Lionel-GroulxNews
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsLatest storiesMost popularVIDEO: What’s it like to start university?Concordian Ted Stathopoulos joins one of the world's most respected engineering associationsNew research: feeling bad has academic benefits5 reasons to attend Winter Orientation 2017A newbie’s guide to making friends at ConcordiaMatthew Forsythe is Concordia's 2017 Richler writer-in-residence15 years of leading-edge learning and research'Children's eyes light up': Exposcience 2016 welcomes 1,800 visitorsAdvice from an undergrad: how to launch a successful appWho were sex workers in 19th-century Montreal?What was their relationship with the law?
What lessons can we extract from this time period?Find an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424