http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/students/registration.htmlNote: At this time, course registration is not possible on some mobile devices. Note: The screenshots included in this Registration guide could contain prior term examples of step by step Registration processes. Do not confuse the dates you see in the examples in this guide with the actual current term dates and information.
 The requirements for advising prior to registration vary according to your program of study. To determine if you require advising refer to the Holds box on your Student Center page or go to your Faculty or School’s advising information page by clicking on the appropriate link below.Advising information:The registration system is accessed via MyConcordia with your netname and password. Once in MyConcordia, click on My Student Center and select Enroll.To assist you in planning your timetable we have included information on how to look for courses by using the Class Search which is a comprehensive listing of courses offered at Concordia University. Refer to Step 3, A – Browse Course Catalog.Once you have decided on the courses you would like to take, please go to Step 3, B – Search for Classes where you can now start to fill your Course Cart with classes for each term.Please note the following:You should consult the Undergraduate Calendar to see the requisites for the course in which you want to register. If you receive a message about ‘requisites not met’ when trying to register for a class, you should ensure that you have met all of the requisites as stated in the Undergraduate Calendar. If you believe that you have then you will need to speak to your department so that they can look into this matter for you.Some classes have seats that are reserved for students in specific programs. This is usually done to ensure that students who need the class as part of their program are able to register for it. Depending on the rules defined by the department that offers the class, they may set all, some, or none of the seats to be reserved.  If you try to register for a class and receive a message about ‘reserved seats’ then you should select another class or consult the department to obtain permission to take the class.
Some classes may require that you first obtain permission to take the class. If you receive a message that states: “Department Consent Required”, you will need to speak to the department that offers the class in order to obtain permission to register.The Browse Course Catalog feature provides access to a comprehensive listing of information about courses offered at Concordia University.   NAVIGATION:  Academics > Search > Browse Course CatalogTo browse for courses:Important Note:  the existence of a course on this list does not guarantee that the course is currently offered.The Search for classes function is used to look for information about scheduled classes for a particular term and is generally available in early March. A variety of search criteria may be entered to narrow or broaden a search. Search results provide information such as date and time of classes, location, name of instructor, number of seats available and so on.ORTo search for classes:For a Summer class, select “Summer 2016”
For a Fall class, select “Fall 2016”
For a Winter class, select “Winter 2017”
For a Fall / Winter class, select “Fall/Winter 2016-17”(6 credit FULL YEAR classes only)NEW: To view classes in all terms of the academic year, select “ALL TERMS (2016-2017)
NOTE: Any terms in the list that end in “(CCE Only)” will only return results for Continuing Education classes..There are two sets of enrollment appointment dates – one for summer and another for fall, fall/winter and winter. The enrollment appointment date is the first date on which you may begin the registration process for that term.Your individual date will be displayed in the Enrollment Dates box on your Student Center page. The summer dates will appear first.Example:Clicking on the details arrow for additional information:The enrollment appointment date will default to the upcoming or current term. This screen offers the capability of determining the student credit limits for each term. For example, the student above has a maximum limit of 12 credits they can possibly take in Summer 2016.The appointment date for the Fall, Fall/Winter and Winter terms will appear after the expiration of the summer dates. Other terms can be accessed by using the “Change Term” button.Although the enrollment appointment dates indicate when you will be able to start registering, you can start planning and filling your Course Cart in early March. The enrollment appointment date is based on the number of credits to completion for your program if you are a degree student.If you wish to calculate your enrollment appointment date, the following formula is used:Program length (minimum credits required) minus credits earned minus in progress courses as of February 2016 (excluding DISC courses) equals credits to completion.Following are all the enrollment appointment dates for 2016-17:.On the enrollment appointment dates, the system is programmed to be available from 8 a.m. onward. The registration system may be extremely busy at 8 a.m. on each new enrollment appointment date so it is strongly recommended that you wait until later in the day.   NAVIGATION:  Academics > My Academics
If the information concerning your program is incorrect you may contact 514-848-2424, ext. 2668 to find out how to make corrections. It is important for this information to be correct, as the wrong degree or concentration may block you from entering courses for which you are eligible.You can add classes to your schedule for the selected term in three easy steps with a couple of restrictions to note:   NAVIGATION:  Academics > Enroll > AddFind a class to add, using one of the options displayed, or, if you know the class number, enter it into the Enter Class Nbr fieldTo view details of the course, click on the Section to obtain further information about the course.If satisfied that you wish to enroll in this course, choose select class.Confirm the class information. If the section selected also requires you to register for additional components such as labs, tutorials, conferences, etc. you will be required to make that choice before proceeding further:Once you have selected the conference, press Next. You will receive confirmation that the course has been added to your Course Cart.At this point, you may continue to add further courses to your Course Cart.Once you have added all your required courses, you will need to click on the “Proceed To Step 2 of 3” button.If your registration was successful you will see the following message:If it was unsuccessful you will receive an error explaining what the problem is and what you must do to rectify the situation. Here is just one possible example:For Example, the above message is informing you that Departmental Consent is required before you can register in this course. It would be necessary for you to contact the relevant Department to obtain the necessary consent. In other instances, you may be denied  registration in a course that appears to have seats available. This is caused by the Department/Faculty having reserved seats for students in a particular department or program of study.Remember to register for both Fall (2162), Fall/Winter (2163) and Winter (2164) at the same time – do not wait until later in the Fall to register for your Winter courses as you may find them filled to capacity.Please note: If you only want to change sections of the same course see Step 6, C – Swapping classes.There are three easy steps to dropping a class from your schedule but there are two different types of course withdrawals and both are controlled by deadline dates shown in the Term Dates and Deadlines.Please note the following important details:   NAVIGATION:  Academics > Enroll > DropSelect a specific term from the list of current terms that are displayed in the table.Once the add/drop deadline for a term has passed that term will no longer be available for selection from the table.Click the Continue button.All registered classes for the term will be displayed in a grid. Multi-component classes will display all registered sections.Select the class(es) you want to drop and click the Drop Selected Classes button. Note that you are able to drop multiple courses at once if you wish to do so.Select the My class Schedule button to retrieve your class schedule and confirm that the class(es) correctly show the status as Dropped or DSC.You can swap one course for another or one section for a different one. The process is a combination of add and drop. The swap function allows you to verify the availability of another course or section of the same course before you make a decision. There is, therefore, no risk of losing the section you have if another section is not available. DO NOT, UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES, use the drop and add features to accomplish a section change. If you drop the section that you are currently registered for and then find out that no spaces are available in other sections, you may not be able to get back into the section you were originally registered in as another student may have taken your place once you dropped the course.There are some restrictions attached to swapping classes:To swap a component of a multi-component class while keeping one or more of the other components (for example, swap HIST 202 Lec A, Conf AA for HIST 202 Lec A, Conf BB while keeping the same lecture) see the section entitled Swapping Multi-Component Classes.
   NAVIGATION:  Academics > Enroll > SwapSelect a specific term from the list of current terms that are displayed in the table.Click the Continue button.The first grid on this page called, Swap This Class, displays a list of classes in which you are currently enrolled.The next section, called With This Class, allows you to search for a class using the class search feature, or to select from your Course Cart, or to enter the Class Nbr if you already know it.Select the class that you wish to swap from with the Swap This Class grid.Select the class that you want to swap to using the With This class grid.If you use the search feature and identify a course, you will be asked to choose the section you want by using the “select class” button and you are then re-directed to the Confirm your selection page.If you Select from your Course Cart, using the select button next to that option takes you to the Confirm your selection page.If you use the Enter Class Nrb feature and press enter you will eventually reach the Confirm your selection page.Confirm your selection and click the Finish Swapping button.If the swap is unsuccessful either follow the instructions in the error message or try another course by selecting SWAP from the menu bar:View My Class Schedule to verify the status of your swap transaction:Once all seats in a course have been filled it may still be possible for you to add your name to a wait list. Academic departments have the choice of offering wait list seats or not. To determine which courses will allow you to add your name to a wait list:   NAVIGATION:  Academics > SearchYou are now on the Class Detail page which indicates whether or not a Wait List is available for the course selected and it is also indicated what the wait list capacity is for the course and the Wait List total.This tells you that 25 students can add their name to a wait list after the class capacity of 250 has been reached.There are two scenarios under which you may add your name to a wait list.You start the registration process by trying to register for INTE 123 but the course is full and you get the following error message:You use the class search described above to see the detail of the course and determine that a wait list is available and that there is still room for you to add your name. Knowing this, you select the course again and tick the box labelled Wait list if class is full and select next.You will see the resulting message:If a seat opens up in this course and you satisfy all the necessary requirements you will be registered automatically and notified via e-mail accordingly. The registration in this course could take place as late as one day before the deadline to drop courses (DNE) without financial penalty.If you are permitted to enroll in 15 credits in the fall term and you have already reached that capacity but still want the possibility of entering INTE 123, you would use the Swap This Class grid to identify which of your courses you would swap. You would then go to the With This Class grid and enter the course. You will then follow the normal steps to get to the point where you identify that you want to “Wait list if class is full”.If a seat opens up in this course and you satisfy all the necessary requirements you will be swapped from one course to the other automatically and notified via e-mail accordingly. The registration in this course could take place as late as one day before the deadline to drop courses (DNE) without financial penalty.Note: Adding your name to a waitlist does NOT guarantee that you will get into the class.You can verify your schedule in two different formats.From your Student Center page you can choose weekly schedule.The resulting “My Class Schedule” page allows you to select the term for which you wish to verify your registrations. After selecting the term, press continue. You then have the choice of seeing your schedule in a list view or a weekly calendar view.The list view is as follows:The weekly calendar view is as follows:PLEASE NOTE:If you encounter faculty-related difficulties (prerequisites, co-requisites, anti-requisites; permission of the department required; closed class, etc.) while using the Registration system, you must contact your department. Please refer to the following links:
For non Faculty-related problems, please call (514) 848-2424, ext. 2668 Monday to Friday, from 09:00 – 17:00, all year round, except for holidays.Should you experience technical difficulties, please contact the Concordia Service Desk at:Information regarding your account balance is available from the Student Center page under the Finances banner:PLEASE NOTE – if you have recently enrolled or dropped some classes and you would like to see your updated tuition balance, you can click on the “Account Inquiry” link in the top-left of the Finances section.  This will trigger a recalculation of your tuition fees and update your balance accordingly.For more information about tuition fees and payment deadlines, please visit the Tuition and Fees page...Office of the Registrar
The requirements for advising prior to registration vary according to your program of study. To determine if you require advising refer to the Holds box on your Student Center page or go to your Faculty or School’s advising information page by clicking on the appropriate link below.Remember that if you are required to meet with an adviser before registering, you will not be able to register for classes until you do so.Find the right person to speak in your Graduate ProgramDiploma Youth Work
MA Human Systems Intervention
Diploma Biotechnology and Genomics
MSc Biology (coming soon)
PhD Biology (coming soon)
MSc Chemistry and Biochemistry
PhD Chemistry and Biochemistry
Diploma Communication Studies
MA Media Studies (coming soon)
PhD Communication Studies
Diploma Economics
MA Economics
PhD Economics
Diploma Adult Education
Diploma Instructional technology
MA Applied Linguistics
MA Child Studies
MA Educational Studies
MA Educational Technology
PhD Education
MA English
PhD English
MSc Exercise Science
Certificat anglais-français en langue et techniques de localisation
Diplome en traduction
MA traductologie
MA traductologie professionnelle
Diploma Environmental Impact Assessment (coming soon)
MEnv Environmental Assessment (coming soon)
MSc Geography, Urban and Environment (coming soon)
PhD Geography, Urban and Environment (coming soon)
MA History
PhD History
PhD Humanities
Diploma Journalism and Diploma Visual Journalism
MA Journalism
MA/MSc Mathematics & Statistics
PhD Mathematics & Statistics
MA Philosophy
MSc Physics
PhD Physics
MA Public Policy and Public Administration
PhD Political Science
MA Psychology
PhD Psychology
MA Religion
MA Judiac Studies
PhD Religion
Diploma Community Economic Development
MA Social and Cultural Anthropology
MA Sociology
PhD Social and Cultural Analysis
MA Theological StudiesMBA
Diploma in Business Administration
Certificate in Business Administration
Diploma Chartered Professional AccountancyMEng Building Engineering
MEng Civil EngineeringMEng Electrical and Computer EngineeringMEng Information Systems Security
MEng Quality Systems EngineeringMEng Aerospace
MEng Industrial Engineering
MEng Mechanical EngineeringMAppl Computer Science
MEng Software EngineeringPhD Art Education
MA Art Education
MA Art History
 PhD Art History
MDes Master of Design
PhD Film and Moving Images
MA Film Studies
 MA Creative Arts Therapies
Graduate Diploma in Music TherapyBack to topThe registration system is accessed via MyConcordia with your netname and password. Once in MyConcordia, click on My Student Center and select Enroll.While most programs offer online registration, there are some programs that require onsite registration within the department.  If you have not received information concerning the registration process for your program, please contact your department for more information.Please refer the Enrollment Appointment Dates below for further information.To assist you in planning your timetable we have included information on how to look for courses by using the Course Catalog which is a comprehensive listing of courses offered at Concordia University. Refer to Step 3A – Browse Course Catalog.Once you have decided on the courses you would like to take, please go to Step 3B – Search for Classes where you can now start to fill your Course Cart with classes for each term.Please note the following:You will not be allowed to register for courses where any of the class hours (including labs, tutorials, etc.) overlap with another course. It is important to be prepared in advance with several different schedules and a list of replacement courses in case your original choices are not available.If you plan on registering for English Composition or ESL (English as a Second Language) courses and have written the appropriate placement test, your results will be sent to you by e-mail.   You should consult the Graduate Calendar to see the requisites for the course in which you want to register. If you receive a message about ‘requisites not met’ when trying to register for a class, you should ensure that you have met all of the requisites as stated in the Graduate Calendar. If you believe that you have then you will need to speak to your department so that they can look into this matter for you.Degree students: You are not permitted to register for a course that has a prerequisite if you have not completed that prerequisite. If you have received authorization from an academic adviser to register for a course without the stated prerequisite, the adviser must enter a waiver that will permit you access to the course.Qualifying programs: Qualifying program courses consist of deficiencies and/or additional course requirements that are not part of the degree program requirements. These courses can be undergraduate or graduate level. All qualifying courses are to be completed in the first 3 terms following your term of admission. If you are in graduate program with qualifying course requirements, these courses must be taken beginning with the first term of your program.Independent/Visiting students: If you wish to register for courses where the prerequisite was not completed at Concordia, you must contact the relevant Graduate Program Assistant to receive permission.Some classes have seats that are reserved for students in specific programs. This is usually done to ensure that students who need the class as part of their program are able to register for it. Depending on the rules defined by the department that offers the class, they may set all, some, or none of the seats to be reserved.  If you try to register for a class and receive a message about ‘reserved seats’ then you should select another class or consult the department to obtain permission to take the class.Some classes may require that you first obtain permission to take the class. If you receive a message that states: “Department Consent Required”, you will need to speak to the department that offers the class in order to obtain permission to register.Back to topThe Browse Course Catalog feature provides access to a comprehensive listing of information about courses offered at Concordia University. Important Note:  the existence of a course on this list does not guarantee that the course is currently offered.   NAVIGATION:  Academics > Search > Browse Course CatalogTo browse for courses:Important Note:  the existence of a course on this list does not guarantee that the course is currently offered.Back to topThe Search for classes function is used to look for information about scheduled classes for a particular term and is generally available in early March. A variety of search criteria may be entered to narrow or broaden a search. Search results provide information such as date and time of classes, location, name of instructor, number of seats available and so on.ORTo search for classes:For a Summer class, select “Summer 2016”
 For a Fall class, select “Fall 2016”
 For a Winter class, select “Winter 2017”
 For a Fall / Winter class, select “Fall/Winter 2016-17”(6 credit FULL YEAR classes only)NEW: To view classes in all terms of the academic year, select “ALL TERMS (2016-2017)
 NOTE: Any terms in the list that end in “(CCE Only)” will only return results for Continuing Education classes.o    If you are searching in a term in which you have already enrolled, your “My Class Schedule” will be displayed.o    A summary of the search criteria enteredo    List of classes that meet the search criteria, including class details, class name and number, section, location, days, times, instructor, term offered, availability, and status.o    New search criteria can be entered by clicking the NEW SEARCH or MODIFY SEARCH buttonIf a class in the search results is offered in a career and term that you are active in, then you will be able to use the “select” button next to the class to add it to your Course Cart. For example, if you are in an undergraduate program but search for a graduate class, the select button will not appear.TermThe “Term” drop down refers to the term for which you are searching for class(es).Course CareerThe “Course Career” drop-down menu allows you to select if you want to search for classes offered to Undergraduate students (to search for any QP related courses), Graduate students (to search for courses related to your program), Professional Development (to search for GradProSkills workshops), Research, or classes in Continuing Education.Select SubjectThe green “select subject” button provides an alphabetical listing of all class subjects that have been offered historically (these may not currently be offered). If you already know the abbreviation of the Class Subject, type it into the blank field beside the “select subject” button. For example, type “ENGL” for English classes, or “FINA” for Finance classes.Course NumberThe “Course Number” field narrows the search down further to a specific class. For example, if you want to search for the POLI 601 class, you would enter “POLI” in the ‘Select Subject’ field above and then enter “601” into the ‘Course Number’ field.Course LevelThe “Course Level” field allows you to search for classes at a specific level. You can select multiple levels if you wish to view a larger range of results. For example, if you want to view all 200-level classes, select the “200” checkbox. If you want to view all 500 and 600-level classes, select both the “500” and “600” checkboxes.
NOTE: The Course Level option can only be used for credit courses. This can be combined with the ‘Select subject’ field or the ‘Department or Faculty’ field to refine results.Department or FacultyThe “Department or Faculty” field allows you to search for classes offered by a specific department or faculty. For example, to search for classes offered by the Education department, select “Education” from the drop-down menu. To search for classes offered by the Fine Arts faculty, select “FACULTY OF FINE ARTS” from the drop-down menu.
NOTE: When searching for classes offered by a Faculty, you may have to refine your search by selecting additional criteria..ADDITIONAL SEARCH CRITERIAClass TimesThe “Class Times” field refers to the class start and end times. Entering a time in the first field will search for all classes starting after the time entered. Entering a time in the second field will search for all classes ending before the time entered. These fields can be used together to search for classes within a desired range.
NOTE: The times should be entered in a 24-hour format. For example, if you wish to search for 7am, enter “07.00”, or for 7pm, enter “19.00”.Days of the weekYou can select any of the checkboxes next to the relevant day(s) of the week to include classes offered on that day in the search.
NOTE: If you select a specific day, the search results will include classes that are scheduled on that day, including any classes that are split between the selected day and another day. For example, if you select the “Mon” checkbox only, you will see classes scheduled on a Monday only and classes scheduled on a Monday and Wednesday.LocationYou can use the “Location” field to search for any combination of ‘in-person’ classes scheduled at the ‘Sir George Williams (Downtown)’ or ‘Loyola’ campuses, or for ‘Online Courses.
NOTE: If you search only for Online classes, then any Class Times entered or Days of Week selected will be ignored.Instructor Last NameSearch for classes taught by a specific instructor by entering the first few letters, the exact last name, or letters contained in the name.Course KeywordSearch for a class by its title and description. Enter a full or partial keyword to return search results that include all classes with the keyword or partial keyword as part of the title or description.Class NbrEnter the ‘Class Nbr’ if known. This is a 4 or 5-digit class number that a class is assigned in the Student Information System.
NOTE: This is not the same number as the “Course Number” field above.Back to topThere are two sets of enrollment appointment dates – one for summer and another for fall, fall/winter and winter. The enrollment appointment date is the first date on which you may begin the registration process for that term.Your individual date will be displayed in the Enrollment Dates box on your Student Center page. The summer dates will appear first as follows:Clicking on the details arrow for additional information:The enrollment appointment date for Summer 2016 (2161) will appear first. The appointment date for the fall, fall/winter and winter terms will appear after the expiration of the summer dates.NOTE: You can also see how many credits you are allowed to take for the selected term on this page. The value in the Max Total Units box at the bottom left of the screen shows how many credits you are authorized to take. In the example above, the student is able to take a maximum of 9 credits.Although the enrollment appointment dates indicate when you will be able to start registering, you can start planning and filling your Course Cart in early March. The enrollment appointment dates are set based on a standard for all programs. Programs may have a later start date than what is indicated on the Enrollment dates. Qualifying program students can enroll on the Enrollment date indicated. If you do not have the listed pre-requisite for the qualifying courses you will need permission from your graduate program.Enrollment appointment date Category of student March  11Returning and newly admitted students March 11Qualifying Program studentsEnrollment appointment dateCategory of studentMarch 10Returning studentsMarch 11Newly admitted students  (excluding CPA)April 5Newly admitted students (CPA)Enrollment appointment dateCategory of studentMarch 10Returning and newly* admitted thesis studentsMarch 14Returning and newly* admitted graduate course based students* All newly admitted graduate students to ENCS for Summer 2016 require advising prior to registration. Registration will be blocked until advising is completed.Enrollment appointment date Category of student March 22Visiting students March 22Returning and newly authorized  graduate Independent students    Students admitted for September 2016 (2162) should register for 2164 (January 2017) courses at the same time as 2162 courses. Enrollment appointment dateCategory of studentMarch 23Returning students including Qualifying Program StudentsApril 18Newly admitted students* Registration for the following programs will be done in person with the Program Advisor:
MFA Studio Arts, MA Creative Art Therapies programs and the Certificate in Music Therapy in the Faculty of Fine ArtsEnrollment appointment dateCategory of studentMarch 23Returning students  including Qualifying Program StudentsMarch 24Newly admitted students (excluding CPA)July 5Newly admitted Fall (2162) students  (CPA)** Registration for the following programs will be done in person with the Program Advisor:
Executive MBA and the Goodman Institute of Investment Management programs.Enrollment Appointment DateCategory of studentMarch 23Returning Qualifying Program StudentsApril 18Returning and newly* admitted thesis studentsApril 20 Returning and newly admitted course based students (in person only)June 1Newly* admitted course based students may start registering online* All newly admitted graduate thesis students to ENCS for Fall/Winter 2016/2017require advising prior to registration. Registration will be blocked until advising is completed.Enrollment appointment date Category of student March 23Returning Qualifying Program Students Enrollment appointment date Category of student August 22Visiting students August 22Returning and newly authorized  graduate Independent students    Enrollment appointment date Category of studentSeptember 12Newly admitted students for January 2017 (2164) can register any time after admission and advising criteria have been satisfied. (Excluding Diploma in Chartered Professional Accountancy (CPA*).November 29Newly admitted Winter 2017 (2164) students (CPA)December 12Newly authorized graduate Independent & Visiting students for January 2017 (2164).Back to topOn the enrollment appointment dates, the system is programmed to be available from 8:00 a.m. onward. The registration system may be extremely busy at 8:00 a.m. on each new enrollment appointment date so it is strongly recommended that you wait until later in the day.While departmental and faculty advisers and staff are always available to give advice and guidance, you are responsible for the completeness and correctness of your course selection and registration, and for observing the University’s regulations and deadlines.While most programs offer online registration, there are some programs that require onsite registration within the department.  If you have not received information concerning the registration process for your program, please contact your department for more information.   NAVIGATION:  Academics > My Academics
If the information concerning your program is incorrect you may contact your department to find out how to make corrections. It is important for this information to be correct, as the wrong degree or option may block you from entering courses for which you are eligible.Back to top   NAVIGATION:  Academics > Enroll > AddSelect a specific term from the list of current terms that are displayed in the table.
 If you are taking Qualifying courses which are at the undergraduate level, select the Undergraduate.Graduate Degree, Qualifying, Independent and Visiting students are able to register for Graduate Professional Development courses in addition to the their program courses.Find a class to add, using one of the options displayed, or, if you know the class number, enter it into the Enter Class Nbr fieldTo view details of the course, click on the Section to obtain further information about the course.If satisfied that you wish to enroll in this course, choose select class. Confirm the class information. If the section selected also requires you to register for additional components such as labs, tutorials, conferences, etc. you will be required to make that choice before proceeding further:Once you have selected the tutorial, press Next. You will receive confirmation that the course has been added to your Course Cart. At this point, you may continue to add further courses to your Course Cart.Once you have added all your required courses, you will need to click on the “Proceed To Step 2 of 3” button.If your registration was successful you will see the following message:If it was unsuccessful you will receive an error explaining what the problem is and what you must do to rectify the situation. Here is just one possible example:For example, the above message is informing you that Departmental Consent is required before you can register in this course. It would be necessary for you to contact the relevant Department to obtain the necessary consent.  In other instances, you may be denied registration in a course that appears to still have seats available. This is generally caused by the Department/Faculty having reserved seats for students in a particular department or program of study. Remember to register for both Fall (2162), Fall/Winter (2163) and Winter (2164) at the same time – do not wait until later in the Fall to register for your Winter courses as you may find them filled to capacity.Back to topPlease note: If you only want to change sections of the same course see Step 6, C – Swapping classes.There are three easy steps to dropping a class from your schedule but there are two different types of course withdrawals and both are controlled by deadline dates shown in the Term Dates and Deadlines link under the Important Information section of the Student Center page.Please note the following important details:   NAVIGATION:  Academics > Enroll > DropSelect a specific term from the list of current terms that are displayed in the table.Once the add/drop deadline for a term has passed that term will no longer be available for selection from the table.Click the Continue button. All registered classes for the term will be displayed in a grid. Multi-component classes will display all registered sections.Select the class(es) you want to drop and click the Drop Selected Classes button. Note that you are able to drop multiple courses at once if you wish to do so.Select the My class Schedule button to retrieve your class schedule and confirm that the class(es) correctly show the status as Dropped or DSC.Back to topYou can swap one course for another or one section for a different one. The process is a combination of add and drop.  The swap function allows you to verify the availability of another course or section of the same course before you make a decision. There is, therefore, no risk of losing the section you have if another section is not available. DO NOT, UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES, use the drop and add features to accomplish a section change. If you drop the section that you are currently registered for and then find out that no spaces are available in other sections, you may not be able to get back into the section you were originally registered in as another student may have taken your place once you dropped the course.There are some restrictions attached to swapping classes:   NAVIGATION:  Academics > Enroll > SwapSelect a specific term from the list of current terms that are displayed in the table.Click the Continue button. The first grid on this page called, Swap This Class, displays a list of classes in which you are currently enrolled.The next section, called With This Class, allows you to search for a class using the class search feature, or to select from your Course Cart, or to enter the Class Nbr if you already know it.Select the class that you wish to swap from with the Swap This Class grid.
 Select the class that you want to swap to using the With This class grid.If you use the search feature and identify a course, you will be asked to choose the section you want by using the “select class” button and you are then re-directed to the Confirm your selection page.If you Select from your Course Cart, using the select button next to that option takes you to the Confirm your selection page.If you use the Enter Class Nrb feature and press enter you will eventually reach the Confirm your selection page.Confirm your selection and click the Finish Swapping button.If the swap is unsuccessful either follow the instructions in the error message or try another course by selecting SWAP from the menu bar:View My Class Schedule to verify the status of your swap transaction:Back to topOnce all seats in a course have been filled it may still be possible for you to add your name to a wait list.  Academic departments have the choice of offering wait list seats or not.  To determine which courses will allow you to add your name to a wait list:   NAVIGATION:  Academics > SearchYou are now on the Class Detail page which indicates whether or not a Wait List is available for the course selected and it is also indicated what the wait list capacity is for the course and the Wait List total.This tells you that 25 students can add their name to a wait list after the class capacity of 250 has been reached.There are two scenarios under which you may add your name to a wait list.You start the registration process by trying to register for INTE 123 but the course is full and you get the following error message:You use the class search described above to see the detail of the course and determine that a wait list is available and that there is still room for you to add your name. Knowing this, you select the course again and tick the box labelled Wait list if class is full and select next.You will see the resulting message:If a seat opens up in this course and you satisfy all the necessary requirements you will be registered automatically and notified via e-mail accordingly. The registration in this course could take place as late as one day before the deadline to drop courses (DNE) without financial penalty.If you are permitted to enroll in 15 credits in the fall term and you have already reached that capacity but still want the possibility of entering INTE 123, you would use the Swap This Class grid to identify which of your courses you would swap.  You would then go to the With This Class grid and enter the course.  You will then follow the normal steps to get to the point where you identify that you want to “Wait list if class is full”.If a seat opens up in this course and you satisfy all the necessary requirements you will be swapped from one course to the other automatically and notified via e-mail accordingly.  The registration in this course could take place as late as one day before the deadline to drop courses (DNE) without financial penalty.Note: Adding your name to a waitlist does NOT guarantee that you will get into the class.Back to topYou can verify your schedule in two different formats.From your Student Center page you can choose weekly schedule.The resulting “My Class Schedule” page allows you to select the term for which you wish to verify your registrations.  After selecting the term, press continue.  You then have the choice of seeing your schedule in a list view or a weekly calendar view.The list view is as follows:The weekly calendar view is as follows:Back to topIf you encounter faculty-related difficulties (prerequisites, co-requisites, anti-requisites; permission of the department required; closed class, etc.) while using the Registration system, please contact your graduate program.Information regarding your account balance is available from the Student Center page under the Finances banner:PLEASE NOTE – if you have recently enrolled or dropped some classes and you would like to see your updated tuition balance, you can click on the “Account Inquiry” link in the top-left of the Finances section.  This will trigger a recalculation of your tuition fees and update your balance accordingly.For more information about tuition fees and payment deadlines, please visit the Tuition and Fees page.Back to top.School of Graduate Studies© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityCourse registrationDownload the complete registration guideStudent hub
            
                Student hub
            Academic advising
How To guides (PDF)Academic advisingStep 1 — Academic advising
                
            
                
					
                    Step 2 — Accessing registration
                
            
                
					
                    Step 3 — Plan your timetable
                
            
                
					
                             A — Browse course catalog
                
            
                
					
                             B — Search for classes
                
            
                
					
                    Step 4 — Enrollment appointment dates
                
            
                
					
                    Step 5 — System availability
                
            
                
					
                    Step 6 — Registration
                
            
                
					
                             A — Adding classes
                
            
                
					
                             B — Dropping classes
                
            
                
					
                             C — Swapping classes (including Section changes)
                
            
                
					
                             D — Wait listing classes
                
            
                
					
                    Step 7 — Verify your courses
                
            
                
					
                    Step 8 — How to obtain help
                
            
                
					
                    Step 9 — Obtain your account balance and verify payment deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course registration
                
            
                
					
                    Step 1 — Academic advising
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty of Arts and Science
                
            
                
					
                    John Molson School of Business
                
            
                
					
                    Engineering and Computer Science
                
            
                
					
                    Fine Arts
                
            
                
					
                    Step 2 — Accessing registration
                
            
                
					
                    Step 3 — Plan your timetable
                
            
                
					
                             A — Browse course catalog
                
            
                
					
                             B — Search for classes
                
            
                
					
                    Step 4 — Enrollment appointment dates
                
            Enrollment appointment dates for Summer 2016 (2161)
Enrollment appointment dates Summer 2016 (2161)
Enrollment appointment dates Summer 2016 (2161)Enrollment appointment dates Summer 2016 (2161)Enrollment appointment dates Fall (2162), Fall/Winter (2163)Enrollment appointment start dates Fall (2162), Fall/Winter (2163)Enrollment appointment dates Fall (2162), Fall/Winter (2163)Enrollment appointment dates Fall 2016 (2162)Enrollment appointment dates Fall 2016 (2162)Enrollment appointment dates for newly admitted Winter (2164) students
                
					
                    Step 5 — System availability
                
            
                
					
                    Step 6 — Registration
                
            
                
					
                             A — Adding classes
                
            
                
					
                             B — Dropping classes
                
            
                
					
                             C — Swapping classes (including Section changes)
                
            
                
					
                             D — Wait listing classes
                
            
                
					
                    Step 7 — Verify your courses
                
            
                
					
                    Step 8 — How to obtain help
                
            
                
					
                    Step 9 — Obtain your account balance and verify payment deadlinesHow to register:Enrollment appointment dates
Summer 2016 (2161)Enrollment appointment dates
Fall (2162), Fall/Winter (2163), Winter (2164)Know the CodeFaculty of Arts and Science
Faculty of Fine ArtsJohn Molson School of BusinessFaculty of Engineering and Computer ScienceIndependent Students and Visiting StudentsFaculty of Arts and Science
Faculty of Fine ArtsJohn Molson School of BusinessEngineering and Computer ScienceSchool of Graduate Studies – INDI and UNIT ProgramsIndependent Students and Visiting StudentsAll FacultiesContact usConnect with usConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Test ResultsREQUISITES
RESERVE SEATS IN CLASSESDEPARTMENT CONSENTTerm Selection Example:Swapping multi-component classes (while keeping one or more of the other components)Scenario 1Scenario 2Some tips about wait listsPayment Deadlines:Time ConflictTest ResultsRequisitesReserve Seats in ClassDepartment ConsentTerm Selection Example:Swapping multi-component classes (while keeping one or more of the other components)Scenario 1Scenario 2Some tips about wait listsPayment Deadlines: