http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/artsci/coms/2016/03/23/50th_Anniversary_Awards.htmlThe Department of Communication Studies is thrilled to announce the winners of the 50th Anniversary Graduate Awards. The honours, specially awarded in conjunction with the Department's year-long celebration of its founding fifty years ago, recognize contribution to the life of the department along with academic achievement.The MA in Media Studies Awards went to Rebecca Waldie (first year) and Michelle Macklem (second year). Ms. Waldie has served as MA graduate representative to the Department as well as to several university-level bodies, including Arts and Science Faculty Council, Academic Tribunal, and Senate Research Committee. Ms. Macklem has also served as MA graduate representative and been regularly called upon for tours, mentorship, and development of student-friendly spaces. Each receives $2000.The PhD in Communication Awards were given three students distinguished by their outstanding academic records as well as their dedication and service to the department; Momoko Allard (4th year), Ashley McAskill (5th year), and Katerina Symes (3rd year). Ms. Allard has played an instrumental role developing and administering our department’s Feminist Media Studio. Ms. McAskill, a member of the COMS PhD association executive, and also Concordia’s Graduate Student Association, co-organized our department’s Joint PhD Biennial Conference (in 2013) and has served on various departmental committees. Ms. Symes, also a member of the COMS PhD association executive, has represented students on multiple departmental committees, in addition to having chaired the COMS 50th Graduate Student Research Creation Showcase, among other workshops, seminars, and lectures she helped organize. Each PhD award-winner receives $2400.The Department of Communication Studies 50th Anniversary celebrations continue with events listed at http://coms50th.concordia.ca/coms50-events/.Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia University50th Anniversary AwardsDepartment of Communication Studies
            
                Department of Communication Studies
            Related topicsFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424