http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/polisci/research/affiliations.htmlOur faculty members are engaged in inter-disciplinary research and play leading roles in major inter-institutional and university-wide collaborative research projects, including:The Centre for the Study of Democratic Citizenship (CSDC) brings together a group of scholars from five Québec universities, who work on research related to democratic citizenship. The purpose of the Centre is to develop inter-disciplinary and multiple methodological perspectives in the study of challenges that democracies face in a rapidly changing world. The Montreal Institute for Genocide and Human Rights Studies (MIGS) is recognized internationally as Canada’s leading research and advocacy Institute for genocide and mass atrocity crimes prevention. MIGS conducts in-depth scholarly research and proposes concrete policy recommendations to resolve conflicts before they degenerate into mass atrocity crimes. Under the co-direction of Daniel Salée, Mireille Paquet, Antoine Bilodeau and Chedly Belkhodja, the CEPI conducts research on immigration-related public policies with a focus on assessing the effectiveness of immigration policies as well as their consequences on the integration of immigrants and the reactions among the host populations. We host a bi-monthly workshop open to all graduate students and faculty from the Concordia community and from elsewhere.The Azrieli Institute of Israel Studies is a multi-disciplinary research centre dedicated to the study of Israel in all its facets. Created in 2011, the Institute brings together faculty, researchers and students who share a common passion and dedication to the study of Israel across many fields, including archaeology, history, religion, political science, economics, art, literature, anthropology and sociology.
CREGÉS is a research centre facilitating the sharing of knowledge between the academic community and practice settings in health and social services. Their mandate is to encourage, promote and disseminate research in social gerontology, and to support the development of leading-edge practices at the Cavendish Health and Social Service Center (CSSS Cavendish-CAU). The researchers and qualified professionals affiliated with CREGÉS work in various milieus, including health and social services centres, universities, and the community.CERB is an interdisciplinary forum for all the Brazil-related research and studies programs at Université du Québec à Montréal. UQAM has developed a solid expertise on Brazil, establishing relations with 22 Brazilian universities, institutes, and research centres from the Amazon to Rio Grande do Sul, including Pará, Bahia, Minas Gerais, São Paulo, and Rio de Janeiro. CERB's projects touch upon a wide range of fields from literature and the arts to education, earth sciences, health, communications, the environment, urban studies, and strategic and diplomatic studies.Directed by Tina Hilgers, the LLACS is a space for student-researcher collaboration on projects related to the Latin American and Caribbean region. ​This interdisciplinary network includes over 30 Concordia professors and over 20 external members, linked by the common pursuit of solutions to prevalent environmental concerns of our time, especially biodiversity conservation and climate change mitigation and adaptation. The Centre, directed by Peter Stoett, supports projects that combine scientific, cultural, and policy analysis. The Simone de Beauvoir Institute (SdBI) is a college of Concordia University dedicated to studying feminisms and questions of social justice. It was established in 1978 to provide a foundation for the interdisciplinary teaching of, and research in, Women’s Studies. Beauvoir, a distinguished philosopher and feminist writer, authorized the Institute to use her name and continued to show great interest in its activities. The SdBI has been a pioneer in the field of Women’s Studies in Canada.TSAS engages in policy-relevant research and dissemination in terrorism, security and society. The TSAS Network is designed to foster: communication and collaboration between academic researchers working on these topics in Canada; communication and collaboration between academic researchers and policy officials in these subject fields; and links with research on these topics in other countries. © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityAffiliationsDepartment of Political Science
            
                Department of Political Science
            Join the conversationCentre for the Study of Democratic CitizenshipMontreal Institute for Genocide and Human Rights StudiesCentre for the Evaluation of Immigration Policy (CEPI)Azrieli Institute of Israel StudiesCentre for Research and Expertise in Social Gerontology (CREGÉS)Centre for Studies and Research on Brazil (CERB)
 Lab for Latin American and Carribean StudiesLoyola Sustainability Research Centre Simone de Beauvoir InstituteCanadian Network on Terrorism, Security, and Society (TSAS)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424