http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/diploma/alumni-profiles.htmlFind out from our alumni how the Graduate Diploma/Certificate in Business Administration gave them the business background they needed to take a step forward.Heba Abou-Abed graduated from the Graduate Diploma in Business Administration (GDBA) at Concordia University’s John Molson School of Business in 2014. Heba shares her experience at JMSB in the GDBA program and explains how it helped her develop new skills, strengthen others, and gave her the confidence to enter the Canadian labor market, as a new migrant to Montreal.Corey McCormick completed the Graduate Certificate in Business Administration (GCBA) in December 2014 before joining the MBA program in January. Corey shares his experience in the GCBA and explains how it has complemented his background in Science with hands-on business skills that he can use in his day-to-day work tasks.Raafat Sultan graduated from the Graduate Diploma in Business Administration (2010) at Concordia University's John Molson School of Business. Raafat describes how completing the GDBA enhances career opportunities. Audrey Doyon-Lessard graduated from the Graduate Certificate in Business Administration (2011) at Concordia University's John Molson School of Business. Audrey talks about how the GCBA has prepared her to soon start her own business in Athletic Therapy.Floriana Berretta, PhD, GCBA 2012
 Regulatory Affairs Associate, Pharmascience Inc.Dr Berretta talks about how the GCBA gave her the business skills she needed to complement her science and research background. She also tells how completing the GCBA helped her develop her professional network.
 Ian Swanson, BSCH, MSc, GCBA 2010
 Senior Strategy Analyst, Millennium Research Group, Toronto, Canada"When I realized academia was not where my future lay, I discovered that my experiences and skill set left blatant gaps that would require filling as I stepped off the academic path. Much like other science students, my university experience had been exclusively focused on building the knowledge and skills required to succeed in my field, but they were not easily transferable to other disciplines.

Enrolling in the GCBA program was an easy win; the courses were instrumental in helping me bridge the gap between science and business. Although they were definitely a different style of class from that I was used to in science, they were not nearly as daunting as I thought they would be. I now work at a company that straddles the line between business and science, and I feel the GCBA program not only helped me land the job, but also facilitated a smooth transition out of academia."Attend an info session/eventConnect with a recruiterDownload program brochureContact us© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityAlumni profilesJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            Get startedTestimonials from GCBA graduates of the RI-MUHCConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Heba Abou-AbedCorey McCormickRaafat SultanAudrey Doyon