http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/anthropology-and-sociology.htmlExpand your notion of what it means to become a person in Canada and around the world by examining the many ways peoples, past and present, have organized the activities, institutions and belief systems that sustain social life. The Joint Specialization in Anthropology and Sociology allows you to observe and investigate cultural life in diverse societies while acquiring the training you need to apply social science methods to large-scale research projects. By taking a critical look at social problems and social change, you will enhance your thinking about the reasons for poverty, prejudice, crime and conflict. You’ll be able to apply our methods to nearly any place in the world, and any topic — from medicine, art and myth to human rights, sexuality, justice and power. A Joint Specialization in Anthropology and Sociology will equip you to make positive and effective social change in our society and around the world.A Bachelor of Arts degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background.Concentrations:See the degree requirements for each concentration in the Undergraduate Calendar.No specific courses are required beyond a DECMinimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
 Sample classesSee more courses & descriptions.The Co-op program gives academically strong students a chance to bridge university life and the working world by completing paid work terms. Co-op students graduate with job-search skills, enhanced personal and professional skills as well as a year’s worth of work experience. Your work may include:Learn more about our Co-op programs.Because social science forms the backbone of so much of today’s work, both public and private, the fundamental skills you learn in our program will equip you to make structured and informed decisions, in any profession, including:Read more about our great grads.A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityAnthropology and Sociology (BA)Related programsKey resourcesJoin the ConversationDegree options
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Co-op program
                
            
                
					
                    After your degreeWhy study Anthropology and Sociology?Program DetailsUnited States  studentsBachelor of Arts (BA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Cegep StudentsMinimum Cut-off Averages