http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/events/artsci/polisci/wssr/2017/02/03/archerworkshop.htmlHow fair are elections in Canada? Why do young people vote infrequently and what can we do about it? Is the system of voting in Canada broken, and if so, how can it be fixed? Is internet voting likely in the future? These are very real concerns and this two-day workshop gives you an opportunity to discuss them with British Columbia’s current Chief Electoral Officer, Keith Archer.This workshop will cover topics such as how elections are run in Canada (and how they can be improved); youth electoral disengagement (and what can be done about it); drawing electoral boundaries (and the meaning of effective representation); transparency in electoral financing (and why this is so important in democracies). We’ll also discuss whether our current method of running elections, and of voting, are outdated, and whether major changes are (or should be) forthcoming.Go beyond the basics and dig deeper into economic, political, and procedural underpinnings of elections. Also, what kind of electoral reform is under consideration at the federal and provincial levels in Canada, and what are the prospects for reform?© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
                        Preparing for the May 9, 2017 Provincial General Election: Managing a Successful Democratic Eventwith Dr. Keith Archer, Chief Electoral Officer of British ColumbiaDepartment of Journalism
            
                Department of Journalism
            Upcoming Workshops and EventsJoin the ConversationHappy Birthday Canada: Celebrating 150 YearsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424with Dr. Keith Archer, Chief Electoral Officer of British Columbia
                   	with Dr. Avigail Eisenberg, Professor, University of Victoriawith Jean-Pierre Kingsley, Former Chief Electoral Officer of Canadawith Honourable Don Boudria, Former Government House Leader with Dr. Keith Archer, Chief Electoral Officer of British Columbia