http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/about/strategic-directions/archives.htmlIn mid-January 2015, Concordia launched phase one of its strategic directions initiative, engaging students, faculty and staff in conversations about how we can make Concordia future-ready.Phase two was launched in September 2015 with two major planning efforts: one that involved Faculties and units in developing their own strategic plans, and a second that focussed on developing institutional-wide strategies for directions that we’ve identified as central to our vision of Concordia as a next-generation university. These are: double our research; teach for tomorrow; embrace the city, embrace the world; and grow smartly.During the first phase, we had lively and thoughtful discussions about what’s next for Concordia, influenced by the speaker series, The Future of the University and the Future of Learning, consultations with students, faculty and staff through Idea Cafés and other activities as well as seven working groups. We also released a preliminary draft document that outlined our high-level strategic directions, and invited input from the community. This document distilled the feedback we received about what Concordia wants and needs to do in order to thrive in the decade ahead.After reviewing feedback with the Strategic Directions Advisory Committee, President Alan Shepard presented a revised document to Senate at its meeting of May 15, 2015. Following discussion and recommendations for changes, a slightly revised document was approved by Senators. The document was approved by the Board of Governors in June 2015. Read the document here.The second phase of our process was launched in September 2015. This involved more detailed action planning work by the Faculties, Libraries and administrative areas. Not only were strategic plans for the Faculties, Libraries and administrative areas developed but cross-institutional strategies for the following directions were also completed: double our research, teach for tomorrow, grow smartly and embrace the city and embrace the world. Work will also be done to make improvements to administrative processes. The strategic directions initiative was led by an advisory committee whose members include the Senate Steering Committee and the Academic Planning and Priorities Committee as well as students, researchers, faculty and staff.During phase one, seven idea groups were created – small teams that were given mandates to review input gathered at the idea cafés and their own consulting activities and research. These seven groups were: the future of learning and experiential learning, innovation and entrepreneurship, international strategy, next-generation academic structures, next-generation student skills and expectations, public/community engagement and research.President Alan Shepard provided an update to the Board of Governors about the initiative on April 15. This was followed by a discussion of draft strategic directions at the Senate meeting held on April 17, 2015 meeting. A final draft was released to the Concordia community on April 23 for feedback by May 6.After reviewing feedback with the Strategic Directions Advisory Committee, President Alan Shepard presented a revised document to Senate at its meeting of May 15, 2015. Following discussion and recommendations for changes, a slightly revised document was approved by Senators. The document was approved by the Board of Governors in June 2015.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityPhase one archiveStrategic directions
            
                Strategic directionsOverviewStrategic directions advisory committeeConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Phase 1 – January to June 2015Phase 2 – September to April 2016http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/research/for-researchers/workshops/archives.htmlÉtablissement de nouveaux chercheurs universitairesand grantsmanshipSoutien à la recherche pour la relève professorale and grantsmanshipNSERC suite of programs (with emphasis on the Discovery Grant) and grantsmanshipSSHRC suite of programs (with emphasis on the Insight Grant) and grantsmanshipPresentation of the highlights of the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada's (SSHRC) Strategic Plan to 2020: Advancing Knowledge for Canada’s Future. The PowerPoint presentation, by the Fonds de recherche du Québec Société et culture (FRQSC), provides an overview of the mission and objectives of this provincial funding agency. 
© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityArchivesAugust 23 FRQNTAugust 23 FRQSCAugust 24 NSERCAugust 24 SSHRCJune 14 SSHRC Presentation at Concordia         March 30 FRQSC Presentation at ConcordiaConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/research/for-researchers/funding-opportunities/internal-funding-awards/archives.htmlIn April, 2010, the Senate adopted two new policies which will guide the management and administration of Research Chairs and Research Units at Concordia. These university-wide principles are intended to ensure that research chairs and units are recognized, selected, and financed in a coherent and visionary manner to support and advance the academic and research priorities of the University.In June 2007, the Vice-President, Research and Graduate Studies convened a Committee to review the roles and responsibilities of the School of Graduate Studies.  The Committee membership comprised Associate Deans from each of the Faculties and Schools, faculty members from each Faculty/School with experience in the administration of graduate programs, the Executive Director of Enrolment Services, the Executive Provost, the Associate Vice-President International and a graduate student. The final committee report is now available.
Download pdfThis committee was struck in May 2007, as part of the University’s strategic planning exercise. Its mandate was to suggest a series of innovative initiatives (punctual actions, programs, policies, etc.) to address the new opportunities and challenges facing Concordia because of the rapidly increasing research intensity. The committee was co-chaired by Drs. Louise Dandurand and Camille Limoges (Retired Deputy Minister, Quebec Ministry of Research, Science and Technology). It was composed of nine other members: two from OVPRGS, five from the university’s four Faculties and two from external organizations.After a thorough review of current best practices, policy documents and other relevant publications, several round-table meetings and two lengthy sessions dedicated exclusively to an extensive SWOT analysis, the committee tabled a report in August 2007 and proposed a set of enabling strategies, grouped under three overarching recommendations:For full report  Concordia University opens its research findings to the worldConcordia University’s academic community has passed a landmark Senate Resolution on Open Access that encourages all of its faculty and students to make their peer-reviewed research and creative output freely accessible via the internet. Concordia is the first major university in Canada where faculty have given their overwhelming support to a concerted effort to make the full results of their research universally available.“Concordians have, once again, found a way to share their innovative findings and creativity with communities the world over”, says Judith Woodsworth, President and Vice-Chancellor of Concordia. “As befits its role as host of the Congress of the Humanities and Social Sciences next month, our university is now leading the way on this year’s Congress theme: Connected Understanding/le savoir branché.”Gerald Beasley, Concordia’s University Librarian, was instrumental in the campus-wide dialogue on open access that began more than a year ago. “I am delighted that Senate voted to support the recommendations of all four Faculty Councils and the Council of the School of Graduate Studies. There are only a handful of precedents in North America for the kind of leadership that Concordia faculty have demonstrated by their determination to make publicly-funded research available to all rather than just the minority able to afford the rapidly rising subscription costs of scholarly databases, books and journals.”This past year, Concordia launched Spectrum, an open access digital repository that continues to grow beyond its initial 6,000 dissertations submitted at Concordia, and at its predecessors Sir George Williams University and Loyola College. The Senate Resolution encourages all of Concordia’s researchers to deposit their research and creative work in Spectrum.Source: Media Relations.   © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityArchivesOpen Access at ConcordiaNew policies on Research Chairs and Research UnitsReview of the School of Graduate StudiesStrengthening Research Capacity, Alliances and Outreach CommitteeConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424