http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/news/media-relations/ask-our-experts.htmlEach week, we feature Concordia faculty and staff who are ready to provide expert opinion, comment and analysis on today's headlines. Remember an expert you would like to contact about a past news topic? Search our topics archive, browse our experts database, or contact a member of our team for support.  An anti-gentrification group has claimed responsibility for vandalism in the Montreal borough of Hochelaga-Maisonneuve (HoMa) that happened early Monday. Fred Burrill, PhD candidate in the Department of History in the Faculty of Arts and Science, can weigh in on what the gentrifcation of HoMa means for the community.Fred Burill, PhD candidate, Department of History
fredburrill@gmail.comInterviews in English and FrenchIn an attempt to increase transparency the Senate has posted the attendance records of its senators online. Also on the political front, electoral reform is up for debate. The special committee of MPs who have been studying electoral reform suggest holding a referendum to decide whether or not to continue with the current system or to adopt proportional representation. Guy Lachapelle, professor in the Department of Poltiical Science in the Faculty of Arts and Science, can comment on both issues.Guy Lachapelle, professor, Department of Political Science
Guy.Lachapelle@concordia.ca
 514-848-2424, ext. 8704Interviews in English and FrenchTrudeau approves Kinder Morgan PlanPrime Minister Justin Trudeau approved two major oil pipeline expansions, including the contentious Kinder Morgan Trans Mountain line. Peter Stoett, director of the Loyola Sustainibility Research Centre, can address the impact and environmental concerns that approving these two pipelines may have.Peter Stoett, director, Loyola Sustainibility Research Centre
peter.stoett@concordia.ca
 514-848-2424, ext. 2116On Wednesday, November 30 Montreal Mayor Denis Coderre released the new city budget. Some key aspects of the budget include an increase in residential property taxes and a hike in overall expenditures of 2.8 per cent. Harold Chorney, professor in the Department of Political Science in the Faculty of Arts and Science, can weigh in on what this new budget means for the city.Harold Chorney, professor, Department of Political Science
Harold.Chorney@concordia.ca
514-848-2424, ext. 2115André Gagné, professor in the department of Theological Studies in the Faculty of Arts and Science, examines the origins of Christ’s birth and the place of spirituality in current Christmas celebrations.André Gagné, professor, Department of Theological Studies can be reached
Andre.gagne@concordia.ca
 514-848-2424, ext. 5355 or 2993Festive gatherings are central to so many holiday traditions. But do your healthy diet and good exercise habits have to fall by the wayside? Thea Demmers. supervisor in the Nutrition Suite in the PERFORM Centre, can offer tips on how to stick to your good healthy habits even during holiday celebrations.Thea Demmers, supervisor, Nutrition Suite, PERFORM Centre
Thea.Demmers@concordia.ca
 514-848-2424, ext. 4018The holidays can be a joyful time of year, but it can also be a stressful season. Family obligations, hectic schedules and the pressure to buy and give gifts can sometimes be overwhelming. Erin Barker, assistant professor in the Department of Psychology in the Faculty of Arts and Science, can talk about how to best handle holiday stress.Erin Barker, assistant professor, Department of Psychology
Erin.Barker@concordia.ca
 514-848-2424, ext. 2209Zeynep Arsel, associate professor in the Department of Marketing at the John Molson School of Business, has researched the conditions that ensure the most pleasant shopping experience. Her research shows familiarity encourages people to support their favourite businesses.Zeynep Arsel, associate professor, Department of Marketing
zeynep.arsel@concordia.ca
 514-848-2424, ext. 2956
(Unavailable December 3-6)Retailers have realized people now shop for themselves while they are picking up gifts for others. Their advertising would have us believe ‘tis the season for great bargains. Robert Soroka, a lecturer in the Department of Marketing in the John Molson School of Business, can help sort the real deals from the hype.Robert Soroka, lecturer, Department of Marketing
Robert.soroka@concordia.ca
 Cell: 514-947-1593© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityAsk our expertsNews
            
                News
            Join the conversationNews topics as of December 2, 2016Anti-gentrification movementSenate transparency and electoral reformCoderre releases new budgetHoliday Season ExpertsWhat is left of Christ in Christmas?Eating healthy over the holidaysHoliday stressComfortable shopping spacesThe real deal on holiday salesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424