http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/polisci/student-life/associations.htmlThe Political Science Students' Association, best known to all as the PSSA, is the representative body of Political Science Students at Concordia University, which has one of the biggest Political Science departments in Canada.  It is comprised by 5 Executives and a President which meet on a regular basis to organize projects throughout the academic year.The PSSA works hard to give Political Science students the chance of getting internship and conference opportunities, as well as defending students' interests in departmental meetings.  For more information on the PSSA and its projects, visit the PSSA's website at www.pssa.caRecognizing the diverse interests and needs of the Concordia University Political Science Graduate Students, the Political Science Graduate Student Association (PSGSA) will strive to act in a manner that is representative of its members.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityStudent associationsDepartment of Political Science
            
                Department of Political Science
            UndergraduateGraduateRelated LinksJournalsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/cinema/student-life/associations.htmlThe CSA is a student run committee that represents the interests and concerns of Mel Hoppenheim School of Cinema students. The committee serves as an important link between students and faculty and is responsible for organizing an array of events, including MHSoC's annual year-end screening.Our Objectives:Faubourg Tower - FB 414concordiacinema@gmail.com514-848-2424 ext. 4678Visit the CSA websiteVisit the CSA on Facebook© Concordia UniversityMel Hoppenheim School of CinemaConcordia UniversityCinema Students AssociationMel Hoppenheim School of Cinema
            
                Mel Hoppenheim School of Cinema
            Contact usConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/student-life/associations.htmlWhatever your  interests, there is sure to be a related student association or club. From animation, cinema and ceramics, to printmaking, electroacoustics and theatre, the Fine Arts Student Alliance (FASA) has you covered. You never know – a chance encounter could open the door to an artistic collaboration! 
FASA is the umbrella organization representing all students enrolled in courses in the Faculty of Fine Arts, and also administers all Fine Arts clubs. FASA supports student endeavour in the Fine Arts by issuing special project grants to individual and group applicants twice per year and by providing operational funding to student clubs and organizations. FASA seeks to improve the quality of Fine Arts student life at Concordia by representing students to the University administration, offering a variety of services and organizing diverse social events. FASA is always looking for students to volunteer and help out with campaigns and events. For more information, visit the FASA website.

Clubs recognized by FASA range from departmental student associations to clubs organized around specific interests. For a complete list of FASA clubs and information about club registration and funding, visit FASA Clubs.There is also a wide range of Concordia-wide student groups and clubs to suit every interest from cultural and religious to social and academic groups. Explore the many ways you can get involved in university life!

© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityStudent associationsFaculty of Fine Arts
            
                Faculty of Fine ArtsFine Arts Student Alliance (FASA)FASA ClubsUniversity-wide clubs & associationsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/art-history/student-life/associations.htmlPublish an article. Discover a new passion. Curate an exhibition. Join a student group to enrich your student experience.The Concordia Undergraduate Journal of Art History (CUJAH) is aimed at showcasing the talents of the Art History Department’s undergraduate students. CUJAH serves as a published, academic forum for students’ research papers. The papers cover a broad range of art historical topics as taught by the department’s faculty.Concordia University’s Art History Graduate Student Association (AHGSA) endeavours to enhance the academic life of all graduate students involved in the study of art. Aside from promoting the research of students enrolled in the Art History, Humanities, and Special Individualized programs, AHGSA organizes social and academic events that foster dialogue and contribute to the development of its members’ graduate studies. AHGSA also provides a voice for its membership by sitting on various departmental committees.One of AHGSA’s principal activities is the organization of an annual graduate student conference. The two-day conference is usually held in mid-March and features a keynote speaker. Recent conferences include Shifting Borders, on the notion of borders within visual culture; Charged Circuits: Questioning International Exhibition Practices, on the proliferation of international exhibitions and their growing influence on the discipline of art history; and Writing between the Lines: Art and its Historians, on the roles, opportunities, and quandaries of those involved in writing art history.AHGSA is supported by Concordia’s Graduate Student Association and the Department of Art History.Established in 2012, the Indigenous Art Research Group promotes the study and engagement of Canadian Indigenous artistic practice. Our goal is to create space for discussions about current issues and triumphs of Indigenous artists and scholars. The group fosters this via panel discussions, exhibition curation, the production of a journal (Relations), and collaborations with student led and professional individuals and organizations. Of particular interest in the coming years is the development of long term relationships between the group and local Indigenous artists and arts communities. There are many ways for students to get involved; feel free to contact the group to inquire. Ethnocultural Art Histories Research (EAHR) is a 100% student-driven Working Group based at Concordia which seeks to increase the visibility and support of students and faculty from diverse cultural communities who are invested or interested in engaging with ethnocultural art histories research across various disciplines. Main activities might include guest lectures, exhibition visits and discussion groups.Yiara Magazine is an annual publication that discusses feminism in the context of art through visual and written material. We are a student-run magazine that aims to showcase students' work as well as promote critical thinking about the involvement of women in art. Our project includes an annual printed magazine, an exhibit as well as other events which aim to engage the Montreal community in explorations of the terms equality, femininity, motherhood, high/low art, power, etc. We understand art in all its diverse forms from visual to performance, literature and cinema without forgetting crafts of course. Similarly, we make room for the various notions of feminism, recognize their divergences and celebrate their commonalities. In cultivating a space for feminist dialogue in the field of art, we hope to pay tribute to women of the past and present, study the representation of femininity in the artistic sphere, raise questions in relation to the art historical canon and foray into the realm of gender exploration.Architecture ∣ Concordia encourages dialogue, criticism, reflection, and action in response to the history and current status of the built environment. as an inclusive research group we consist of undergraduates, graduates, alumni, and faculty. our mandate is to produce publications, events, and opportunities for different kinds of engagements with the diversity of architectural culture. we liaise with local partners and institutions, enabling architectural discovery outside the university. our experimental, annual publication serves as a platform for visual art, historical investigation and academic writing, and creative responses of all kinds to architecture.© Concordia UniversityAbout
Programs
Research & creation
Student life
News & eventsConcordia UniversityStudent groups and associationsDepartment of Art History
            
                Department of Art HistoryConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Concordia Undergraduate Journal of Art HistoryArt History Graduate Student AssociationAboriginal Art Research GroupEthnocultural Art Histories ResearchYiaraArchitecture ∣ Concordia