http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/diploma/beyond-the-classroom.htmlThe John Molson graduate programs provide numerous opportunities for students to connect with business and community partners through a wide variety of extra-curricular activities and events. Many of the organizations that come into contact with our students throughout our programs eventually recruit and hire our graduates. The connections that JMSB students make during their graduate studies help them not only throughout the program, but also long after graduation.The John Molson MBA International Case Competition, is celebrating its 35th anniversary in 2016. It is the oldest, largest and most highly respected international case competition in the world. Each year, top MBA students from 36 universities around the globe participate in this six-day event. Competitors apply the concepts and theories they have learned in class to a fast-paced problem-solving exercise. Their presentations are then judged by over 200 business executives who evaluate the creativity, insight and real-world applicability of their proposals.The John Molson Women in Business Club (JMWIBC) is an association open to all women - currently or previously enrolled in a graduate program at the John Molson School of Business (JMSB) - who are looking to advance their skills and career through our network of fellow students, alumna and business professionals.Learn more about JMWIBC.The dedicated Graduate Career Advisor at Career Management Services meets graduate students on an individual basis to discuss career issues and to personally get to know the candidates. Your key to success in career management is clearly to know yourself and then evaluate your value to the marketplace. Career Management Services will help you create a winning résumé and cover letter - your primary personal marketing tools. Students will meet their advisor to review and develop a GDBA-specific style. Visit CMS  The John Molson Graduate Student Association (JMGSA) Speaker Series is a student-run initiative that organizes speaker events for graduate students at Concordia University's John Molson School of Business. Learn more about the JMGSA Speaker Series.  The Concordia International Community Outreach Program (iCOP) provides John Molson School of Business students like you with the opportunity to apply and transfer knowledge within the developing world. Work in microfinance, help with market analysis, and provide mentoring or consulting services to local entrepreneurs through iCOP's volunteer work placements. Learn more about iCOP.Attend an info session/eventConnect with a recruiterDownload program brochureContact us© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityBeyond the classroomJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            Get startedJohn Molson MBA International Case CompetitionJohn Molson Women in Business ClubCareer Management ServicesJohn Molson Graduate Student Association Speaker SeriesConcordia International Community Outreach Program (iCOP)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424