http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/research/centres.htmlFine Arts has four affilated research centres. Learn more about the centres and how they relate to the Faculty, then visit each centre's website for more information. The Centre for the Arts in Human Development (CAHD) is an educational, clinical and research centre serving adults with developmental disabilities and other special needs populations. The Centre provides four types of creative arts therapies: art, drama, music and dance/movement, used to promote autonomy and self-confidence, improve social skills and enhance overall quality of life for the Centre’s participants. The Gail and Stephen A. Jarislowsky Institute for Studies in Canadian Art seeks to foster a greater appreciation for Canadian visual culture of all eras. Established through the generous financial support of Gail and Stephen A. Jarislowsky, the Institute maintains a dialogue within the academic and museum communities on the evolving nature of Canadian visual arts study and supports research on Canadian art. The Technoculture, Art and Games (TAG) research centre is an interdisciplinary collaboration platform for research/creation in game studies and design, digital culture and interactive art. TAG brings together scholars, artists, designers, engineers and students from across faculties and disciplines. Participants are from a variety of universities, the game development industry and community based groups. Hexagram is an international network dedicated to research-creation in the fields of media arts, design, technology and digital culture. The network includes researchers from sociology, art history, anthropology, game studies, philosophy and communication/media studies, in addition to artists and designers.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityResearch centresFaculty of Fine Arts
            
                Faculty of Fine Arts
            Gail and Stephen A. Jarislowsky Institute for Studies 
in Canadian ArtTechnoculture, Art and Games (TAG)Hexagram-ConcordiaCentre for the Arts in Human DevelopmentConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424