http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/coms/programs/comms-studies-grdip.htmlOur Graduate Diploma in Communication Studies attracts engaged and ambitious individuals from Canada and around the world. The program is ideal for those seeking a career change or wanting to expand their professional qualifications in media production and theory. In addition to small production classes, the program offers an introduction to communication studies in areas such as documentary studies, feminist media studies, new media and ethics, theories of representation, popular culture, development communication and more. This full-time program can be completed in three terms (fall, winter, summer), and is ideal for individuals wishing to return to a full work schedule after a year.Applicants to the Diploma program do not need specific academic training or production experience. In fact, our main stipulation is that applicants must have a Bachelor’s degree in a field other than communication (see full requirements below). The program’s required courses are offered annually, and include production courses in sound, intermedia and video/film, as well as courses related to the theoretical aspects of communication. Elective courses cover a wide variety of communications and media topics. The option of a credited internship course is also available for students and involves the completion of 120 hours in a relevant media placement.Concordia Diploma graduates have found media-related careers in teaching, advertising, public relations, non-profit organizations, marketing, film industries, freelance media, and radio/television/broadcast journalism. The degree is also an ideal opportunity to explore opportunities for advanced studies at Concordia. Each year a number of Diploma graduates apply to Masters degree programs at Concordia and other universities.I invite you to explore our website and review the range of course offerings as well as the profiles of our accomplished and dedicated faculty members. For further questions do not hesitate to contact us!Sincerely,Owen Chapman, PhD
Diploma Program DirectorPlease contact the Graduate Programs AssistantMircea Mandache© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityCommunication Studies Graduate Diploma (GrDip)Department of Communication Studies
            
                Department of Communication StudiesQuestions?A Word from the DirectorConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424