http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/events/offices/vpaer/aar/2016/11/10/competition-leadership-and-success.htmlThursday, November 10, 2016Join fellow women graduates for the Montreal launch of our Women and Leadership program. A panel will discuss issues surrounding women, from media representation and achieving athletic excellence to translating skills learned from the podium into successful careers. To register by phone, call 1-888-777-3330.Information: lina.uberti@concordia.caSpeakersChu is a four-time Olympic Medallist on the USA ice hockey team, winning three silver and one bronze medal.  She is tied as the second-most decorated U.S. female athlete in Olympic Winter Games history. She was chosen as the U.S. Olympic Team flag bearer by fellow Team USA members to lead the 2014 U.S. Olympic Team into the Sochi Closing Ceremony.  Chu was also an assistant coach for University of Minnesota Duluth and helped the Bulldogs women's ice hockey team win their fourth NCAA Division I national championship in 2008.  She also spent 3 years coaching at Union College from 2010–2013.  Currently, Chu is in her third season as the coach of the Concordia Women’s Hockey Team. Routliffe is an 18-year-old Canadian swimmer for the Paralympic team. She competed at the 2016 Rio Paralympic Games and won a silver medal in the 200 IM. Routliffe grew up in Caledon with her two sisters and will pursue her academic career at Concordia.Bianco is a Senior Lecturer in the Department of Psychology. She holds a bachelor’s degree in Psychology from Concordia and graduate degrees in Sport Psychology from the University of Ottawa (MA) and the University of Western Australia (PhD). Her research focus is on the coach-athlete relationship, particularly in the context of sport injury. Aside from her teaching and research, Bianco works as a sport psychology consultant with elite level athletes.ModeratorPeritz graduated from Concordia University’s Urban Studies and Journalism programs and has been working as a journalist ever since. Her job has taken her to destinations ranging from China and Peru to, most recently, the Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro. She writes for The Globe and Mail on a variety of topics and is most proud of her articles exposing the plight of the Canadian victims of the drug thalidomide, which resulted in a historic compensation package from the federal government. The series earned The Globe and Mail a National Newspaper Award, Canadian Journalism Foundation Award and Michener Award for public service. Peritz is a correspondent for the The Globe and Mail based in Montreal, her hometown.© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
                        Competition, Leadership and SuccessDepartment of Journalism
            
                Department of JournalismJulie Chu
Four-time Olympic medallist and head coach of the Concordia Stingers women’s hockey programTess Routliffe
2016 Rio Paralympic Games silver medallist and Concordia studentTheresa Bianco, BA 94
Senior lecturer, Concordia’s Department of Psychology and leading expert in sport psychology Ingrid Peritz, BA 82
Journalist, Globe and Mail and Rio Olympic correspondentConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424