http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/research/for-researchers/conrad.htmlThe University has launched an automated system for the management of research information. ConRAD allows for the internal review and endorsement of applications of grants and the submission of compliance protocols. Researchers can submit and review documents through their access to ConRAD in the MyConcordia Portal.Important messages for researchers:

1. If you are trying to access ConRAD off-campus, you must login to Concordia's VPN service.

2. The link to ConRAD (Concordia Research Administration Database) is located in the “Research and Innovation” folder inside your MyConcordia portal. All grant applications are now routed through Concordia’s electronic ConRAD system, replacing the paper based Grant Submission Form (GSF). 3. In the “Research and Innovation” folder you will also find My Explore Concordia, our online info. form for submitting and updating your Explore Concordia page. Please take this opportunity to review and update your page! If you still do not have an Explore Concordia page, please join your colleagues by clicking the My Explore Concordia link to create one. About 650 faculty members now are participating, including several entire departments. Have a look: http://explore.concordia.caThere are still two elements to a research application:Using ConRAD does not replace the need to submit your final proposal to the sponsor.Important: It may take up to 6 weeks for the committee’s decision. Data collection should not begin until ethics approval has been obtained.For ConRAD-related questions, please send an email to conrad@algol.concordia.ca.For VPN-related support, contact the IITS Service Desk at 514-848-2424 ext. 7613 or by email at help@concordia.ca.ConRAD has recently been upgraded, and the link to ConRAD is now found in the newly created "Research and Innovation" section of the MyConcordia portal.  If you do not see this link, please email conrad@algol.concordia.ca.PLEASE NOTE: The documentation found below will be updated shortly to reflect any changes to the system.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityConRADUsing ConRAD to apply for funding
                
            
                
					
                    ConRAD support 
                
            
                
					
                    ConRAD referenceAsk us a questionConcordia Research Administration Database (ConRAD)Apply for Grant Funding
Submit a HREC protocolWhere do I go for support?Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Available Forms:Easy StepsAvailable Forms:Easy Steps