http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/economics.htmlInterest rates, budget deficits, social services, taxes and sustainable economic growth: economic problems sit at the forefront of public debates. As an economist, your work informs business leaders and policy makers who must make decisions with lasting consequences.You tackle real-world challenges. Your tools — economic theory and econometrics — rely on a sound knowledge of statistics, mathematics, as well as your keen analytical and communications abilities.We provide a collegial environment to become an economist. You’ll receive tutorial support in key areas and personal attention from senior faculty. You may focus on any aspect of economics or acquire a broad background in the discipline.As an honours or specialization student, you’ll benefit from a wide array of advanced applied economics courses, an active research department and a Co-operative education program.Our grads compete effectively in the job market. Financial analysis, banking and the public sector all seek out economics graduates, while many other alumni enter graduate programs at leading universities.A Bachelor of Arts degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background.Options:Learn more about each option in the Undergraduate CalendarRelated degree:No specific courses are required beyond a DECMinimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
 The program is built around core economic theory and econometric courses, including advanced courses for honours and specialization students and a wide range of electives that examine issues such as international policies, competition regulations, environmental challenges and financial analyses.Sample classesCourse descriptionsCurriculum requirementsRequired Economics credits are as follows:Each option also has specific required and optional courses. See the curriculum for each option.The Co-op program gives academically strong students a chance to complete paid work terms and gain practical experience in their field. Placements range from provincial and federal government departments to companies in insurance, banking and telecommunications. Co-op work terms make it possible for you to do:Entry to the program requires an interview and a high level of academic performance.Learn more about the Economics Co-op program.For more information please contact Bonnie Janicki, Undergraduate and Co-op Program Assistant. While many students enter graduate programs at leading universities, our program opens up many career paths for you in public and private industries, including:A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityEconomics (BA)Related programsKey resourcesJoin the ConversationProgram options & degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Co-op program
                
            
                
					
                    After your degreeWhy study Economics?Program detailsUnited States  studentsBachelor of Arts (BA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Cegep StudentsMinimum Cut-off Averages