http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/research/for-researchers/ethics.htmlEverything you need to know about the requirements for ethics compliance for research involving human subjects or animals. This section will also provide you with links to helpful guides, forms, tools and policies.The role of the Research Ethics Unit (Office of Research) is to:Learn more about Concordia's ethics policy, our approval process, and download key forms related to research involving animals or humans.

Important new information

Effective immediately, researchers are not required to submit a Scholarly Review Form for minimal risk research. Please see the Instructions section of the Scholarly Review Form for more information.All faculty ethics submissions are routed through Concordia’s electronic ConRAD system.

 ConRAD Ethics Submission Checklist Instructions for Writing A Consent Form
Human Ethics Submission Checklist [English doc][English doc]** This DOES NOT include thesis research.
In principle, all research involving human participants, as well as all research involving human biological materials, is subject to ethics review.There are, however, some exemptions. Please consult this document and consult with the staff  of the Research Ethics Unit if you are not sure if your research is subject to review. Research that poses greater than minimal risk to participants is reviewed by the University Human Research Ethics committee (UHREC). Faculty research that is considered minimal risk is reviewed via expedited review by members of UHREC. Minimal risk student research is reviewed via expedited review by members of the College of Ethics Reviewers (CER). If student research is conducted exclusively for pedagogical purposes, it can be reviewed at the departmental level. Please contact your academic department for more information about departmental review.Please see this flowchart for a summary.Minimal risk research is defined as “research in which the probability and magnitude of possible harms implied by participation in the research is no greater than those encountered by participants in those aspects of their daily life that relate to the research.” See Chapter 2 of the Tri-Council Policy Statement (TCPS) for more information. If you have questions as to whether your research qualifies as minimal risk, please contact the staff of the Research Ethics unit.The University Human Research Ethics Committee meets on the following days to review greater than minimal risk research. Documents for such research must be submitted by the deadline listed if they are to be reviewed at the corresponding meeting.Meeting dateSubmission deadlineJanuary 21, 2016January 11, 2016February 11, 2016February 1, 2016March 10, 2016February 29, 2016April 14, 2016 April 4, 2016May 12, 2016May 2, 2016June 9, 2016May 30, 2016All submissions require a Summary Protocol Form*. Depending on the nature of your research the following documents may also be required.*Please download the latest versions of these forms from our website.Faculty members must submit studies for review via ConRAD, which is accessible on the MyConcordia Portal. Please see these instructions for submitting via ConRAD, and contact the Office of Research for any technical questions.Students should submit studies for review by e-mailing the required documents to the Office of Research Ethics UnitReview of student protocols will normally require 3 to 4 weeks from the time the protocol is submitted to the time the certificate is issued. Faculty protocols normally take approximately 4 to 6 weeks. These processing times also depend on factors such as complexity and risk level, completeness of the application, and the response time of researchers to comments and concerns.The most common approach to documenting consent is to provide potential participants with a written consent form that explains the research in understandable terms, and in enough detail to allow them to make an informed decision about participating. They are asked to sign the form if they agree to participate.Please refer to the templates and instructions on our website for more information on developing a consent form.In some circumstances, it may not be possible or desirable to use a written consent form and an alternative approach to documenting consent can be used. In such cases, please contact the staff of the Ethics Unit.Research that implies greater than minimal risk to participants must be reviewed for scholarly merit. However, the following is deemed to have been reviewed for scholarly merit, and a Scholarly Review Form (SRF) is not required:In all other cases, an SRF must be submitted for greater than minimal risk research.There is no need to submit an SRF for research that implies, at most, minimal risk to participants.After reviewing your application, the reviewers may have either “Queries” or “Conditions”. If so, you will be notified by e-mail.Faculty members: please respond via ConRAD according to these instructions.Students: please follow the instructions in the e-mail that you receive.Substantial changes to a research protocol must be approved before they are implemented. A substantial change is one that impacts the methodology, risk level, eligibility criteria or ethical considerations related to a study.Please submit amendment requests by e-mail to the Ethics Unit. Changes to the SPF or other documents should be made in “Track Changes” mode in Word, and the rationale for the change should be explained in an e-mail.Administrative changes include changes to the research team’s contact information, correction of typos and changes to procedures that do not affect participants. They do not need to be approved prior to implementation, but should be included in annual reports.Ethics approval is generally valid for one year; the expiry date will appear on your Certificate of Ethical Acceptability. You must submit an annual report in order to maintain approval. Please submit annual reports to the Ethics Unit one month before expiry.Ethics approval must be maintained for as long as there is a chance of needing to contact participants. For example, if there is a chance of needing to contact participants to inform them of incidental findings, or to ask follow-up questions about an earlier interview, ethics approval must be maintained. Publishing the research is not a determining factor deciding if ethics approval needs to be maintained.When you reach the point where there is no longer a chance of needing to contact participants, please submit an annual report indicating that the study is completed.Research involving the imaging platform at PERFORM must be reviewed by the Comité central de l’éthique de la recherche of the Ministère de la Santé et des Services sociaux. The staff of the Ethics Unit will inform you if any other special requirements apply to your research.Most research institutions in Canada have agreed to adhere to Tri-Council Policy Statement, and must therefore review all research conducted under their auspices.  This means that a research project may be subject to review at multiple institutions. To minimize potential complications, please contact the staff of the Research Ethics Unit to discuss how to proceed.The University Human Research Ethics Committee is currently composed of the following individuals:Name Position Department Jim Pfaus Chair, Arts and Science Psychology Shannon Hebblethwaite Vice-Chair, Arts and Science Applied Human Sciences Bianca Grohmann JMSB Representative Marketing Mark Ellenbogen Arts and Science Representative Psychology Frances Shaver Arts and Science Representative Sociology and Anthropology Arpi Hamalian Arts and Science Representative Education Christine Jamieson Alternate Ethicist Theological Studies Robert Reid Fine Arts Representative Theatre Alan Hogg Community Representative External Téo Leroux-Blackburn Legal Representative External Anil Nagam Medical Representative PERFORM Centre Grace Hogg Alternate Community Representative External Julian SchofieldArts and Science RepresentativePolitical ScienceGiuliana CucinelliArts and Science RepresentativeEducationTiberiu PopaENCS RepresentativeComputer Science & Software EngineeringDavid SeckoEthicistJournalismThe Panel on Research Ethics offers an online tutorial and various webinars on research ethics.Furthermore, the staff of the Research Ethics Unit is available to provide one-on-one consultations and training sessions on research ethics. Please contact them for more information.The staff of the Research Ethics Unit can help you with any issues related to research ethics.The Coordinator, Research Ethics is responsible for student research; the Manager, Research Ethics handles faculty research and general inquiries.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityEthicsConnect with usQuick linksDo I need to apply for ethics review?
                
            
                
					
                    How will my protocol be reviewed?
                
            
                
					
                    What is minimal risk research? 
                
            
                
					
                    When does the ethics committee meet? When do I have to submit my study?
                
            
                
					
                    What documents do I need to submit for review?
                
            
                
					
                    How do I submit for review?
                
            
                
					
                    How long will the review process take?
                
            
                
					
                    How should I document consent from participants?
                
            
                
					
                    Do I need to submit a scholarly review form?
                
            
                
					
                    How do I respond to “Queries” or “Conditions”?
                
            
                
					
                    What do I have to do if I want to change my research protocol?
                
            
                
					
                    How long is my approval valid? What do I have to do to maintain it?
                
            
                
					
                    When can I close my study?
                
            
                
					
                    Are there special requirements for research to be conducted at the PERFORM Centre or other types of research?
                
            
                
					
                    I am collaborating with researchers from another institution. How should I proceed?
                
            
                
					
                    Who is on the University Human Research Ethics Committee?
                
            
                
					
                    What training on research ethics is available?
                
            
                
					
                    Who can I call for guidance on research ethics?Forms for Research Involving Human ParticipantsForms for Research Involving AnimalsAsk us a questionConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424