http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2016/11/03/fall-2016-essential-tips-for-convocation.html
Concordia alumna Mélissa-Anne Ménard recalls her June 2016 convocation fondly. “It was really moving to celebrate my friends’ successes together and be part of the ceremony — to embrace the bigger tradition.”A former Liberal Arts College student, Ménard graduated last spring with a BA honours in history and a minor in modern Chinese language and culture. She now works as a service assistant at Concordia’s Student Success Centre.It was touching to have her academic achievements recognized, surrounded by the warmth of loved ones, Ménard recalls. But like many big moments, it was fleeting.“It’s important to remember and appreciate it.”During fall convocation on November 7, the next cohort of Concordia graduates will be walking across the stage at Place des Arts. If you’re one of them, you’ll want everything to go as smoothly as possible as you collect the diploma you’ve worked towards for years.To help you prepare, Ménard offers the following sage advice.
 If there’s one day on the academic calendar when you don’t want to be late, this is it.“Better safe than sorry,” says Ménard. “Graduates travelling by car should account for traffic, while those using the metro should factor in unexpected stoppages and slowdowns.”She advises showing up at least one hour before the ceremony begins to find out exactly where you’re supposed to be to receive your diploma.The ceremonies take place in Théâtre Maisonneuve at Place des Arts, downtown Montreal. There’s a metro stop by the same name in the basement of the building, three stops away from Concordia on the green line.
 “Your gown covers most of your outfit, but still, this is a time to shine.”Ménard points out that the graduation garb eventually comes off, so you’ll want to dress smartly underneath it — “business smart, not business casual” for candid photos.“Plan your outfit ahead of time, not just the night before, to account for dry cleaning,” suggests Ménard.For footwear, she only recommends high heels if you’ll be comfortable walking across the stage in them. Including the time it takes to get into position, ceremonies can run about two and a half hours.“Who wants to hobble around with sore feet?”
 Arrive at the ceremony with your marshalling card, gown, hood and guests. A bulky handbag will only get in the way.A coat check is available for students, but it doesn’t accept accessories, so leave any valuables with your guests in the audience.Ménard suggests keeping nothing but your marshalling card and your phone, so that your hands are free to accept your diploma.“After the ceremony, the reception area is packed, so you’ll want to have your phone to text your family and friends to organize a meet-up.”
 Many people don’t know this, but graduates whisper their name to the announcer a few seconds before it’s announced into the microphone. This is a safeguard against misidentification.“Practice saying your name out loud. Say it slowly and clearly a few times before the ceremony,” says Ménard. “If you don’t articulate, you might be surprised by how your name is pronounced.”
 Convocation is one of those major life events worth documenting. Make sure to take lots of pictures with friends and family after the ceremony.“I smiled so much that my face hurt!” says Ménard, laughing.Concordia’s Advancement and Alumni Relations crew will once again be at Place des Arts to provide a frame for your special moment. They've also produced downloadable Facebook covers for students and parents to take pride in their alma mater during convocation season.Rain or shine, Facebook, Twitter and Instagram will be abuzz with activity, so hashtag your photos #CUgrad and #CUalumni.
Find out everything you need to know about Concordia’s Fall 2016 Convocation, taking place in Théâtre Maisonneuve at Place des Arts on November 7, 2016. 
        Convocation preview: 4 great grads, in numbers
    
        Concordia’s fall 2016 honorands describe a turning point in their lives
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia University5 tips for fall convocation at ConcordiaNews
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsLatest storiesMost popularOPINION: Big Pharma’s troubles are good news for innovationConcordia receives funding for 5 Canada Research ChairsThe fight against fake newsConcordia receives $2 million to advance smart-grid technology‘Student success is more gratifying than any prize’13 essential tips for exam successTo nap or not to nap? Sleep tips for ConcordiansJason Camlot wins the Donald Gray Prize for best Victorian Studies essay‘We are conducting research in a living lab’What's it like to meet  the Oracle of Omaha?1. Prioritize punctuality2. Dress smartly3. Do you have everything you need?4. Hone your diction5. Plan for photosFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424