http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/admissions/tuition-fees/how-fees-are-billed/other-graduate-programs/faq.htmlGo to your student portal under the MyConcordia Menu choose "Financial » Student's Account". Your student account will indicate the amount due each term and the deadline date by which your payment must appear on your student account.The Quebec Ministry of Education, Leisure and Sports sets the base tuition fee rate as well as the rates of premiums, or forfaitaires, charged to non-Quebec residents and International students. Additional information is available on the Ministere de l'Education, Loisirs et Sports website.Your student account is broken down into 4 major sections:The Quebec government sets the rules for determining a student's Quebec residency status.According to these rules, students who are Canadian citizens, Canadian First Nations members or permanent Residents of Canada who live in Quebec are considered to be non-Quebec residents until they prove their Quebec residency status. Go to the Quebec Residency website for further information.If you were born in Quebec, simply submit a clear copy of your Quebec Birth Certificate to the Birks Student Service Centre, S-LB-185.If your application to pay Quebec Resident fees has not been approved by the government on or before the University's fee payment deadline, then you must pay the fees indicated on your portal Student's Account. If your application is approved after the deadline, your student account will be credited the difference.Yes.The Ministry of Education requires that all Quebec universities insure their international students. A certain category of students may be eligible for an exemption from the Concordia Health Insurance Plan for international students, for example students possessing a Quebec Medicare card. For full details on exemptions, procedures and deadlines, please visit http://supportservices.concordia.ca/iso/healthinsurance/exemptions/Yes, and yes.Undergraduate students registered for more than 3 credits in a fall and/or winter term and who are Canadian citizens or permanent Residents of Canada are automatically enrolled in the Student Health and Dental Plan. Canadian First Nations members and International students are not automatically enrolled in the plans but may “opt-into” the plan (See FAQ #8 Can I enrol in the Student Health and Dental Care Plan).This is a student plan that is administered by the Concordia Student Union (CSU) through their insurance broker, ASEQ at www.ihaveaplan.ca. The University is required to bill and collect the covering premiums but is not responsible for the administration of the plan or the insurance coverage provided.Students may opt-out of the plan. Go to Concordia student health and dental care plan website for details and deadlines.Yes.Canadian First Nations members International students may purchase Student Health and Dental Care Plan coverage directly from the CSU ’s insurance broker, ASEQ at www.ihaveaplan.ca.Payments must appear on your student account no later than the following payment deadline dates:Late payment and interest fees are charged on all late payments, i.e. payments posted to your student account on or after the following dates:Note 1:
No printed invoices or statements of account will be issued by the University. If someone other than you will be paying your fees, e.g. a parent or spouse, please make sure that they are fully aware of the payment deadlines and methods by which payment can be made.Note 2:
Payments made through your online banking service take approximately 3 to 5 business days to appear on your student account. Please keep this mind when meeting the above deadlines.The University does not accept cash for the payment of student tuition and other fees. For a complete list of methods of payment, please visit: http://www.concordia.ca/admissions/tuition-fees/fee-payment-deadlines/methods-of-payment.htmlYes.The policy outlined in "How fees are billed" (section: Financial Obligations, 2. Payments, payment deadlines and what fees must be paid) clearly defines the terms "payment" and "paid" as:  all monies due to the University must be paid and the payment must appear on the student’s account by the published payment deadline date.That is, your payment must appear on your student account no later than the published payment deadline date.  If your payment is made at your bank teller or through your online banking service on the actual payment deadline date or even one day before the payment deadline date, your payment will not appear on your student account until after the deadline, and you will be charged the late payment and interest fees.You will be charged a Late Payment fee and monthly interest. Visit the "How fees are billed" webpage for information regarding the consequences of late payment of fees.If you have an Accounts Restriction because you have an outstanding balance and you wish to continue registering in courses for the current or future academic terms you may be eligible to negotiate payment arrangements with the Student Accounts Office.Students may negotiate payment arrangements approximately 2 weeks before the start of each semester. For more information, visit the "How fees are billed" webpage.Canadian students with an accounts restriction may be eligible for a Tuition and Other Fees Deferral Contract. Visit the "How fees are billed" webpage or the Financial Aid and Awards Office for more information.Students whose fees are paid directly to the University by a “Sponsor” must submit proof of sponsorship to the Student Accounts Office. Please visit the "How fees are billed" webpage for more information.As a staff member, you, your spouse and your dependents may be eligible to receive a Staff Tuition Waiver. If eligible, the staff tuition waiver will cover the base tuition fees charged on credit courses. The remaining fees must be paid by the student. In addition, the waiver is a taxable benefit for the student and a T4A will be issued by the University at the end of the taxation year.Visit the Human Resources website for more information and to access the Tuition Waiver forms.Yes, and no.There are 2 different kinds of withdrawal/drop deadlines. One will generate a refund or a financial credit on the student’s account; the other will not.DNE (Did not enter) withdrawal deadline = full refund or financial credit on accountIf you drop a course before the DNE deadline, you will not be charged any fees and you can obtain a refund for any courses for which you had already paid.DISC (Discontinued) withdrawal deadline = no refund or financial credit on accountIf you drop a course after the DNE deadline and before the DISC deadline, you will see a DISC grade notation on your student record. You will be held financially responsible and must pay for all the fees for the discontinued course, even if you never attended a single class. After all, by registering for and then not dropping the course, you have reserved a seat in the classroom that cannot be filled by another student.The DNE and DISC deadlines are published in the Undergraduate Class Schedule.Courses must be dropped online via your student portal and the Web Registration system. If there is a credit balance on your student account, you can obtain a refund at the Birks Student Service Center in S-LB-185.No.For more information, please refer to the "How fees are billed" webpage pertaining to the release of official documents for students with an outstanding (overdue) balance on their student account.No.All monies owing to the University must be paid in full in order for a student to attend their graduation ceremonies and receive their degree.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFAQHow can I find out how much I have to pay?
                
            
                
					
                    Who sets the tuition fee rates for studying in Quebec?
                
            
                
					
                    How do I read my Student's Account?
                
            
                
					
                    Why am I charged as a "non-Quebec resident" when I am definitely a Quebec resident?
                
            
                
					
                    What if I apply for Quebec Resident status but my residency status is not approved before the fee payment deadline?
                
            
                
					
                    Do I have to pay a Health Insurance premium if I am an international student?
                
            
                
					
                    Do I have to pay the Student Health & Dental Care Plan premium? Can I opt-out of the plan?
                
            
                
					
                    Can I enrol in the Student Health and Dental Care Plan if I am an International student or a member of Canadian First Nations?
                
            
                
					
                    When are my fees due; when must they be paid?
                
            
                
					
                    How can I pay my fees?
                
            
                
					
                    Will I be charged a late payment fee or interest if I pay my fees at my bank by the deadline date?
                
            
                
					
                    What happens if I miss the payment deadline and don't pay my fees on time?
                
            
                
					
                    Can fee payment arrangements be made?
                
            
                
					
                    What if I did not receive my provincial student loan and/or bursary by the end of the late registration period?
                
            
                
					
                    What if my embassy (company, sponsor, etc.) is paying my fees?
                
            
                
					
                    I am a staff member – How do I get information about Staff Tuition Waivers?
                
            
                
					
                    Do I get a refund when I drop a course?
                
            
                
					
                    Can I obtain official transcripts if I haven't paid all my fees?
                
            
                
					
                    Can I attend convocation (graduation ceremonies) if I haven't paid all my fees?Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424