http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/cinema/programs/film-animation-bfa.htmlDiscover and articulate your unique artistic personality as you master an incredibly adaptable art form. This rigorous, versatile program will give you a solid foundation in the art of frame-by-frame filmmaking from professor-practitioners connected to a community of working animators in Montreal and around the world. Our approach to animation emphasizes cross-pollination and experimentation.You’ll graduate with the knowledge and discipline to think critically about your work, and your experience working independently on all aspects of film animation production will set you up for successful collaboration with others in the industry.With an Oscar win, ten nominations, and hundreds of prestigious awards won by past and present faculty and students, we’re proud of the international acclaim our alumni enjoy as directors, producers, editors, and designers of the world’s most creative animation.A Bachelor of Fine Arts degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background.Program options:This program is only available for Fall admission.Annual Capacity: 40
Cegep Students: No specific profile required. However, following a profile in the arts may help applicants build a successful portfolio.General admissions requirements at ConcordiaMinimum Cut-off Averages should be used as indicators. Data may change depending on the quality of the application pool. Admission to the Faculty of Fine Arts is very competitive. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Admission to most programs is based on portfolio/audition evaluations as well as academic grades. Applicants selected for admission have normally achieved grades that exceed minimum requirements.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.March 1Certain programs have extended their deadlines. Please check program availability.N/AAdmission to this program is only available for the Fall Term.
 We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.Courses emphasize experimentation with a variety of techniques and materials. Our acclaimed faculty provide students with intensive training in a diverse range of traditional and digital animation techniques, including:This rigorous approach to classical and digital animation processes emphasizes cross-pollination experimentation, and an independent spirit, making the Film Animation program one of the most versatile training programs in its field.Sample classesFor a list of required courses please download the Program Guide according to year of entry.Consult the undergraduate calendar for a complete list of current Cinema courses. Schedules for courses are available on the class schedules page.Our Centre for Digital Arts and our Visual Media Resources department are staffed by technical experts who will help you realize your ideas. You’ll have access to:Read more about our cinema facilities.The Susan Pigott Fellowship was established for the purpose of encouraging and rewarding an Undergraduate or Graduate student enrolled full-time or part-time in Film Animation or Film Production in Concordia University’s Mel Hoppenheim School of Cinema. This award is for Indigenous candidates and Canadian residents.Learn more about the Susan Pigott FellowshipConcordia University offers students the opportunity to take part in an International Student Exchange Program (ISEP) that will count for credit towards their Concordia degree, while paying the same tuition fees they do at home and possibly receiving funding. International study opportunities bring cultural diversity and enrichment through immersion in the programs of study at Concordia’s partner institutions.Internships provide students with the opportunity to pursue work in the film industry, film research, archival work, editing film publications, or writing film criticism. Consult the undergraduate calendar or graduate calendar for details about program specific requirements and prerequisites.Students may explore specific areas of film through independent study. Consult the undergraduate calendar or graduate calendar for details about program specific requirements and prerequisites.  See independent study guidelines and download forms.Thanks to our state-of-the-art facilities and equipment, students will have comparatively minimal start-up costs. You can expect to spend up to $1,000 in the first year, and about $500 in each subsequent year. Students who opt to use analog equipment will bear the cost of film stock, processing, printing and material. All Film Animation students will pay a laboratory fee. Other specialized fees may also apply.Student work drives the creative energy in the Faculty of Fine Arts, and you’ll have many opportunities to screen your work in film festivals and at on-campus venues. You’ll also have the chance to get involved with organizations that organize screenings and journals that publish articles about film theory, analysis and criticism.To see what current students are working on, take a look at student work.Our students have gone on to become some of the world’s leading independent animation filmmakers. Many work with the National Film Board of Canada or with animation studios and visual effects companies around the world. Your degree can also lead to career paths such as:© Concordia UniversityMel Hoppenheim School of CinemaConcordia UniversityFilm AnimationMel Hoppenheim School of Cinema
            
                Mel Hoppenheim School of Cinema
            Key resourcesJoin the conversationProgram options & degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Facilities
                
            
                
					
                    Scholarships & awards
                
            
                
					
                    Other study opportunities
                
            
                
					
                    Expenses
                
            
                
					
                    Film Animation in action
                
            
                
					
                    After your degreeWhy study Film Animation?Program detailsBachelor of Fine Arts (BFA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Minimum cut-off averagesSusan Pigott Fellowship for Indigenous StudentsInternational Study OpportunitiesProfessional InternshipsIndependent Studies