http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/film-production-mfa.htmlThe MFA in Studio Arts is a professional terminal degree. The MFA Program appeals to practicing artists who wish to refine personal content and forms through critical inquiry, experimentation and innovation. Alumni are recognized as multidisciplinary artist-researchers working at the vanguard of their respective practices.The Film Production concentration is a three year, full-time program that champions an expanded notion of cinema. It encourages media-makers to explore diverse theoretical frameworks, processes and methodologies of contemporary moving image practices. The MFA Program values the importance of critical inquiry and relies heavily on intellectual exchange. Students receive regular feedback from artist-researchers in the department and faculty. Theory and studio seminars provide an important forum for students to discuss and investigate issues and concerns. Review committees composed of faculty, studio arts graduates and invited artist-critics provide a focused response to studio work and prepare students for their concluding project and defense.Concordia’s Faculty of Fine Arts has a longstanding international reputation for excellence. Its vibrant creative and intellectual culture fosters cutting-edge practice, research and scholarship.The MFA in Studio Arts is a disciplinary program positioned within a pluralist theoretical framework. The film production concentration is offered in conjunction with the Mel Hoppenheim School of Cinema. In the first two years of the program, students combine seminar courses with independent studio-based production Seminars are focused on thematic and special topics. Theoretical concepts are introduced to provide a philosophical context to the historical, social and cultural ramifications of film production. Studio practice promotes technical investigation and experimentation. It is conceived as a ‘laboratoire de cinéma’ dedicated to an ongoing dialogue and critique of the processes, methodologies and practices of contemporary cinema.Beginning in their first year, students work closely with faculty to develop an individual research project: the production of a single film or a coherent body of work with a substantial written component that provides a context for creative production. Students devote their third year to the completion and presentation of this project and defence.The MFA program recognizes the potentially transformative nature of research and creation. It supports the production and dissemination of a dynamic variety of innovative and intellectual activities that contribute to the ongoing development and renewal of contemporary cinema. The program examines all formats of image support, including animation, film and digital-based media, as well as various forms of exhibition, from traditional single-channel projection to installation.The MFA program offers alternative learning approaches to standard studio classes and academic offerings to exceptional students. Opportunities include:MFA film production students have access to state-of-the-art facilities equipped with:Faculty members and graduate students have pioneered new processes, creative communities and diverse prototypes. Innovation and interdisciplinarity in artistic practice and presentation lie at the heart of its teaching and research programs. Like other Fine Arts departments, Studio Arts offers a rigorous, stimulating and supportive learning environment.Studio arts programs emphasize experimentation, collaboration and diversity. They value critical inquiry and the investigation of social, cultural and intellectual issues. Students interact regularly with faculty in their area of concentration and also with faculty in other fine arts disciplines whose expertise and research interests may be of particular benefit to them.The department has two research chairs:The department’s art, design and performance laboratories are modern, well-equipped facilities run by experienced technical staff. Depending on their research, graduate student may be able to take advantage of the facilities offered at the Faculty’s four research centres. Concordia is located in the heart of Montreal and MFA students benefit from easy access to museums, galleries and the city’s vibrant artistic community.Admission Requirements. A Bachelor of Fine Arts or a Bachelor of Arts with a Fine Arts or Fine Arts and Art History major, or an approved equivalent, from a recognized institution and with at least a B average in the major area is required. Applicants to the Film Production concentration are expected to have a Bachelor of Fine Arts or Bachelor of Arts degree in cinema or an approved equivalent with at least a B average in the major area. In all cases the students’ undergraduate experience and proficiency must be relevant to the area in which they plan to specialize at the graduate level.Note: Students with a BFA from Concordia University must wait two (2) years before being considered for admission into the MFA program.Application RequirementsThe applicant's submitted portfolio must be relevant to the projected research program as described in the Thesis proposal below. To be eligible for admission to the Graduate Film Production program, applicants must submit all of the following:Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Consult the graduate calendar for a complete list of current courses.A limited number of Teaching Assistantships are automatically assigned to registered students in the 1st and 2nd year of study.A limited number of undergraduate courses are taught by graduate students in their third year of study. These positions are awarded on a competitive basis.Employment opportunities also exist as Research Assistants in the Faculty’s research centres.Email: MFA.StudioArts@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 4607Location: 
 1395 René Lévesque Blvd. W.,  VA 250-6
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 2M5Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityStudio Arts, Film Production (MFA)Why do your Master's at Concordia?
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Film Production
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Sample classes
                
            
                
					
                    Assistantships & internships
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a master's in Studio Arts, Film Production?Program DetailsRelated ProgramsMaster of Fine Arts (MFA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424