http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/finearts/2015/12/fine-arts-bulletin-december-2015.htmlFaculty researchCounterpoint, an exhibition of work by Ingrid Bachmann (Studio Arts), features three large installations: Symphony for 54 Shoes, Pelt (Bestiary) and The Portable Sublime. The work is on view at Art Mûr until December 19. +The upcoming issue of Muséologies (volume 8, number 1), which will be published later this month, focuses on the curatorial challenges of creative based research practices. Carmela Cucuzzella (Design and Computation Arts) was the guest editor for this special edition. The issue’s contributors hailed from universities in Canada, France, United Kingdom, Italy, Portugal, Australia and Belgium, and from disciplines of museology, art and design, art history, music, performing arts, film studies and new media. +Sandi Curtis and Laurel Young (Creative Arts Therapies) were invited to be part of the AMTA Pro podcast series at the American Music Therapy Association annual conference in November. Additionally, Curtis presented a paper entitled Music Therapy for Women Survivors of Violence: Current Practice and Research Trends and Young presented a paper called Examining Lived Experiences of Singing in a Bereavement Support Music Therapy Group. +Georges Dimitrov (Music) was selected as finalist for the Accès Arkea composition contest. A public concert featuring the nominated works will take place on January 28 at the Chapelle Historique, where the winner will be announced. +Cynthia Hammond (Art History) wrote the catalogue essay for The Park (Les Éditions du renard, 2015), a unique, limited-edition book by artist Kate Hutchinson. Photographed over a two-year period, The Park represents Mount Royal through a series of portraits. +For World AIDS Day on December 1, Matthew Hays (Cinema) wrote an article looking back 30 years after the death of Hollywood star Rock Hudson. +Josée Leclerc (Creative Arts Therapies) is quoted throughout a piece in Le Devoir featuring Concordia's art therapies programs.  The online version of the article includes an on-camera interview with Leclerc. +The Hidden Face of Suicide, a film by Yehudit Silverman (Creative Arts Therapies), aired on MAtv on December 9. Silverman was invited to speak about the film as part of segment on Citylife about mental health. +Through the Eyes of Caregivers, an ethnodrama on mental illness in the family written and directed by Stephen Snow (Creative Arts Therapies), was presented by AMI-Quebec and the Centre for the Arts in Human Development in November. Based on the transcriptions of interviews with over twenty caregivers, the play represents a kind of research in which the report is an artful performance of the informants’ lived experiences with being a caregiver. Eric Mongerson (Theatre) created the set and lighting design.Philip Szporer (Contemporary Dance) presented the world premiere of Inquiry Into Time and Perception, a video projection installation, at the Light Moves festival of screendance in Limerick, Ireland in November, making the shortlist for the 2015 Festival Prize. + Also, Szporer’s feature article on the Elizabeth Langley, founder of Concordia's Contemporary Dance program, appears in the current edition of Dance Collection Danse. + Finally, the three-part webseries "Cru," which Szporer co-created with Marlene Millar, produced by Mouvement Perpétuel, was launched on the Fabrique culturelle online platform in November. +Fluid Data, six hand woven digital jacquard tapestries by Kelly Thompson (Studio Arts), will be on view at the Bath Spa University Media Wall until the end of January. Created on a digital jacquard loom (a precursor to computers), digital images of the weavings are displayed with the pieces enlarged tenfold for the MediaWall, in a slide show that adds a further looping or flow of information. Each side of the weavings provides details and layers of translation, communication and readability. +Student workThe innovative work of four undergrads from the Department of Design and Computation Arts outshone all but one of 60 teams in November’s 20th Interuniversity Charrette, a contest for young designers. Final-year design students Steven Steffen, Nick Castonguay, Gustavo Lopez Riveros and computation arts student Nima Navab earned second place among all the entries with their Cummulus Sanctuary project. +In collaboration with Loren Lerner (Art History), Laura Endacott (Studio Arts) designed a project for her print and dye textiles course in which students were asked to respond to an artwork from the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts’ permanent collection that related to the thematic of the family, and produce a piece that responded to it. Each participant was paired with another student Lerner’s Picturing Children, Envisioning Childhood course. The art history students were asked to write about a textile work. A selection of artworks and text by students have been chosen for inclusion in a unique new website.
 
 Events

FOYER: information sessions about a shared graduate student research initiative
December 17, 4 to 6 p.m.
EV 2.781

The Echo Game: Undergraduate Student Exhibition 2015
January 11 to February 14, 2016 (Publication Launch: January 14, 5 p.m. to 7 p.m.)
FOFA Gallery, EV 1.715

Fine Arts IdeaLab.04
January 20, 6 to 8 p.m.
Black Box Theatre, EV OS3-845

Visit the Fine Arts news page for information on these, and other, events.Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFine Arts Bulletin, December 2015Department of Art History
            
                Department of Art History
            Related topicsFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424