http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/finearts/2015/09/17/fine-arts-bulletin.htmlWelcome to new facultyThe Faculty of Fine Arts community wishes the warmest of welcomes to new Faculty of Fine Arts dean Rebecca Duclos, who joined Concordia as dean for a five-year mandate in August 2015.Fine Arts also welcomes three new faculty members in 2015-16 – Rilla Khaled (Design and Computation Arts), Joshua Rager (Music) and Angelique Willke (Contemporary Dance).
HomecomingEvery autumn, alumni return to Concordia for reunions, lectures, tours — and to connect with friends, old and new. Join Faculty of Fine Arts faculty and alumni on September 26 at a cocktail and screenings of the film “The Abenaki - People of the Dawn” by Scott MacLeod, BFA 03, MA 13, and Design and Computation Arts Professor Jason Edward Lewis’ TimeTraveller™ videos. Register now!


 Saluting faculty members of distinction and award winnersTwo Fine Arts faculty members, Eleanor Bond and Erin Manning (both from Studio Arts), were inducted into the Provost’s Circle of Distinction on June 9. The Circle of Distinction recognizes faculty members and librarians who have gained academic or professional accolades from prestigious external groups and organizations.At the same celebration, Edward Little (Theatre) was recognized for his work in the area of the in first-year experience. Earlier that week on June 2, Catherine MacKenzie (Art History) received the President’s Excellence in Teaching Award for Full-time Faculty.
Faculty research newsOn September 15, Sandeep Bhagwati (Music and Theatre) commemorated the 70th anniversary of composer Anton Webern's accidental death by staging a durational performance at Concordia’s matralab. More

Yehudit Silverman (Creative Arts Therapies) and her award-winning film, The Hidden Face of Suicide, will be featured on Mountain Lake PBS Television. The film will be broadcast on September 18 at 9 p.m. and September 20 at 12 p.m. The recorded interview about her work will premiere at September 18 at 8 p.m. and be repeated on September at 19 at 1 a.m. and 7 p.m., and again on September 20 at 5:30 a.m. and 10 a.m.. The interview will also be available online. MoreA paper entitled “Briser les paradigmes : arts électroniques et actions humanitaires” by Ricardo Dal Farra (Music) will be published in an   upcoming issue of Circuit - Musiques contemporaines on September 24. More

An exhibition of new work by Kathleen Vaughan (Art Education) entitled Tissus urbains / Urban cloth will be on view Centre culturel Georges Vanier
until September 27. This exhibition showcases four recent works from Vaughan’s ongoing series of textile maps of walks in urban woods and green spaces of Montreal and Toronto, addressing questions of political ecology and personal experience. MoreTechniques et technologies du cinéma. Modalités, usages et pratiques des dispositifs cinématographiques à travers l’histoire, co-edited by Martin Lefebvre (Mel Hoppenheim School of Cinema), was published this summer. The book extends the work presented at the conference The Impact of Technological Innovations on the Historiography and Theory of Cinema that was held at the Cinémathèque québécoise in November 2011. MoreA retrospective work by Geneviève Cadieux (Studio Arts), Voilà le meilleur portrait, que plus tard, j’ai réussi à faire de lui. Passages vers l’abstraction, curated by Vincent Bonin, will open at the Musée d’art de Joliette on October 2 and run until January. The exhibition encompasses the last 27 years of Cadieux’s esteemed career. MoreJoanna Berzowska (Design and Computation Arts) is one of the judges for WearHacks Montreal (October 2 to 4), the biggest wearable hackathon in North America. Wearhacks promotes innovation, entrepreneurship, and education in the Internet of Things and Wearables space. More
Carey, a work by Janet Werner (Studio Arts), was recently acquired by the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts. Carey joins Aging Ballerina Waving Goodbye, a canvas previously donated by the artist, in the museum’s permanent collection.The 2016 edition of the Body-Mind Centering Association’s annual conference will be held at Concordia, in collaboration with the Department of Contemporary Dance. Submissions for presentations on the subject of evolving pathways in somatics will be accepted until September 30. MoreThe 6th edition of the Media Art Histories conference, hosted by the Hexagram international network, will be held in Montreal in November. In tandem with this conference, a committee of students is organizing a one-day pre-symposium for international and local emerging researchers who wish to attend the main conference, while having an opportunity to present their research and practice, to exchange ideas with peers and receive feedback from experts in related areas. More
Student and alumni newsPaul Hardy, MFA 13, John Player, BFA 08, MFA 14, Megan Hepburn, MFA 10, and current student Cindy Phenix were named as finalists in the 2015 RBC Canadian Painting Competition. The winner will be announced on November 18at the Contemporary Art Gallery in Vancouver. MoreSamantha Bitonti, a student in the Department of Theatre, is the latest recipient of the Developing Artist Grant, a $10,000 bursary issued by the Hnatyshyn Foundation. In an effort to foster excellence in new talent, the foundations assists the most promising young Canadian performing artists enrolled in their final year of a post-secondary educational or training institution program. MoreThe 13th Annual BMO 1st Art! Invitational Student Art Competition announced its winners this summer, and Fine Arts’ undergraduate student Erin Skelton conquered Quebec as the provincial winner. The invitational competition honours visual arts excellence in post-secondary institutions from coast to coast. Skelton will be awarded $5,000 and have her work showcased from October 22 to December 18, 2015 at the Justina M. Barnicke Gallery in Toronto. MoreDevon Hansen, an electroacoustics studies student in the Department of Music, is one of the winners of this year’s Jeu de temps / Times Play (JTTP) competition—Canada’s highest profile emerging electroacoustic composer contest. JTTP is organized by the Canadian Electroacoustic Community. MoreRecent Cinema graduate Ari Soulikias (BFA 2015) won the prize for Best Animation prize at the Cannes Short Film Festival for his film Last Dance on the Main. More
La Rentrée eventsThe Faculty of Fine Arts (FOFA) Gallery kicks off its 2015-16 season with a performance-installation by Goa-based artist Nikhil Chopra in his first Canadian exhibition.Chopra's new site-specific work La Perle Noire will occupy the FOFA Gallery's main space and Montreal's Parc Jarry (September 18 to 20). La Perle Noire is a 57-hour drawing performance inhabiting multiple spaces, and exploring questions of identity and difference, exoticism and the everyday.MFA students Anchal Malhotra’s Remnants of a Separation and Yoshimi Lee’s La femme maison will also be on view in the York Corridor Vitrines and Black Box spaces of the gallery. The exhibitions run until October 23.Other upcoming back-to-school and autumn events include:
Visit the Fine Arts news page for information on these, and other, events.

This bulletin is distributed to all Fine Arts full-time faculty and staff. Department administration: please forward to your part-time faculty and staff, and graduate students.Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFine Arts Bulletin, September 2015Department of Art History
            
                Department of Art HistoryFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424