http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/finearts/2015/10/fine-arts-bulletin--october-2015.htmlConvocation: Celebrating our graduates and honoring an award-winning artistOn Tuesday, October 27 at 7:30 p.m., in a joint convocation ceremony for the Faculty of Fine Arts & the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science, Concordia University will present an honorary doctorate to Barbara Steinman, multi-disciplinary artist, former co-director of Vidéo Véhicule, an artists' video production and performance centre, and of La Centrale Galerie Powerhouse, for her dedication to advancing the practice of visual art and supporting feminist art.Please confirm your attendance at the ceremony, if you have not yet already, by completing the online registration form.
 
 Research news 
Liselyn Adams | Erika Adams | Sandeep Bhagwati | Jeri Brown | Alice Jim | Luanne Martineau | Craig Morrison | Ursula Neuerberg-Denzer | Marisa Portolese | Martin Racine | Eric Simon | Leila Sujir | Anna Waclawek | Michael YaroshevskyLiselyn Adams (Music) will be joined by three alumni in a concert exploring the dark and the light of the crow, the nightingale and the world of sound. Legends and songs for voice, flute, guitar and bass with Sarah Albu (voice), Tariq Harb (guitar) and Serge Agoshkov (bass), and solo works for guitar will take listeners on a journey through poetry of Ted Hughes and Pierre de Ronsard, music of Dusan Bogdanovic, Albert Roussel and others. MoreInterstitial (news for time travelers), a show of new work by Erika Adams (Studio Arts) will open on October 30 at Arprim. Using text ‘drawings’ and large-scale paper sculpture/drawings, Adams investigates the space between what we say (or make) and what we mean. The sculptures and drawings exist in the same framework as language, with meaning and form found as much in the paper as in the intervals between. MoreIn an event called “Musicking the body electric: The first-year compositions,” Sandeep Bhagwati (Music/Theatre) will present his body:suit: score project, developed with a multi-university, multi-disciplinary team (Joanna Berzowska, Concordia University, Marcelo Wanderly, McGill University, Isabelle Cossette, McGill University), that can serve as a score to musicians – using up to 32 vibrating actuators – and composers with a diverse range of musical aesthetics. At the November 4 event, musicians will perform pieces written with the suit and discussions about the future of the project will take place. MoreJeri Brown (Music) presented one of her research papers, Vocal Ecosystem: How do we really improvise in vocal jazz, and ran a vocal workshop as part of the Symposium on Singing and Song at Memorial University in Newfoundland on October 2. This particular paper was also presented in June at the University of Toronto. Brown will also perform in concert at the Oscar Peterson Concert Hall on October 21. MoreAn essay by Alice Jim (Art History) was published in the book Questionner l’avenir. Réflexions sur la réactualisation de la Biennale de Montréal. The publication includes a very large full-colour research poster that the 15 students in Jim’s fall 2014 MA graduate seminar, ARTH 649 Contemporary Exhibition Practice in the International Arena: BNL MTL 2014, researched and designed concurrent to the Montreal biennale. MoreLuanne Martineau (Studio Arts) has been invited to participate in an Artist Residency at the Kinngait Studios in Cape Dorset in April 2016. The TD North/South Artist Exchange, in collaboration with the Canadian Art Foundation, invites artist from southern Canada to live and work in the Arctic for a three-week period and artists from Canada’s Arctic to travel to The South for a similar residency. Past artists have included Shary Boyle, Ed Pien, Graeme Patterson, Tim Pitsiulak and Jutai Toonoo. MoreCraig Morrison (Fine Arts, FFAR 250) presented a paper entitled "Ethnomusicological Archaeology: Reflexive Concert Going From Satchmo to the Clash” at the ninth Biennial International Conference on Music Since 1900 at the University of Glasgow, Scotland in September. MoreUrsula Neuerburg-Denzer (Theatre) directed a reading of Floyd Favel’s Attawapiskat is no Exception on September 18 in Regina, SK. Created by Favel with the collaboration of Fine Arts theatre students in the 2013-14 academic year, and directed by Neuerburg-Denzer, Attawapiskat is no Exception was written in response to the housing crisis on Northern reserves. The reading was performed with a professional cast at the Performing Turtle Island Conference hosted by First Nations University and the University of Regina as part of Psi21 (Performance Studies International )-Fluid States, a distributed model of a global conference. MoreA selection of images from "Still Light," a new series by Marisa Portolese (Studio Arts), is featured in a group exhibition at the Lilian Rodriguez Gallery. The exhibition is on view through Saturday, November 7. MoreMartin Racine (Design and Computation Arts) hosted a workshop and symposium on culture and creativity at Concordia on September 28. The event, which featured lectures by leading design experts, explored creativity and innovation in design and how it is best facilitated, cultivated, exploited and rewarded across different national and cultural borders, different environments and cultures, from both an individual designer's perspective and design groups' perspectives.La vie sécrète la vie secrète, an exhibition of work by Eric Simon (Studio Arts), will open on October 17 at Galerie Donald Browne. MoreElastic S3D Space Workshop, a research exchange organized by Leila Sujir (Studio Arts) brought together researchers, artists and industry experts on October 3 to share their explorations on stereoscopic technologies, their effects and possibilities. During the event, the group explored practical issues, ideas, directions and goals for stereoscopic research projects. MoreAnna Waclawek (Art History, department coordinator) will give a presentation on October 22 entitled: "Pop Culture, Place, and Politics: Graffiti and Street Art in Montreal" at The City Talks Lecture Series, sponsored by the University of Victoria’s Committee for Urban Studies. Waclawek's talk is part of the Fall 2015 line-up of invited speakers about Street Art and the Politics of Urban Place-Making. MoreBlue Signal, a film by Michael Yaroshevsky (Cinema), will be screened at the 2015 Chicago Film Festival (October 15 to 29). According to the festival website, with their innovative use of cinematography and editing, short films like Yaroshevsky’s “aren’t afraid to explore new aesthetic territory”. Shot on film, Blue Signal is an experimental piece that scrutinizes humans in their natural environment. More
 
 Fine Arts IdeaLabIdeaLab.02
Tuesday, November 3, 6 to 8 p.m.
MB 7.265 Dance studio
1450 Guy St. (at Maisonneuve W.)
IdeaLab. Just as it sounds: an experimental forum in which to culture ideas about our unique Fine Arts Faculty culture. IdeaLabs will offer a flash of insight into some projects, program and potent ideas that are at play within our Faculty and through our alumni. Every month, beginning in October and ending in January, we will host IdeaLabs in four different university venues used by our faculty, staff and students. Join us for an “idea slam” of super-fast presentations from several faculty members, students, and alumni. Second, an unscripted discussion with presenters and all members of the audience moderated by jake moore.New initiatives for graduate students Other selected upcoming events
Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFine Arts Bulletin, October 2015Department of Art History
            
                Department of Art History
            Related topicsFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424