http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/finearts/2016/04/fine-art-bulletin-april-2016.htmlAnnouncementRadio Aesthetica has launched! A new initiative by Elisabeth Belliveau (Studio Arts), and students Geneviève Lebleu, Coltrane Mcdowell and Jérémie Cyr, the online program will feature podcasts about creative process and what that means to the people who make live and study art. Tune in for the first episode showcasing MFA students Lynn Price, David Doody, Sarah Givens, Boris Dumesnil-Poulin and Frédérique Laliberté, as well as Dean Rebecca Duclo. +Kudos to Janis Timm-Bottos (Creative Arts Therapies), as well as the the Fine Arts Safety Committee, represented by staff member Norbert Muncs, named as Concordia sustainability and safety champions. +
 Research round-upSeveral Fine Arts faculty members were featured as part of the launch of Concordia’s research centre, Milieux Institute for Arts, Culture and Technology. +Bonnie Baxter (Studio Arts) presents The Tragic and Premature Death of Jane at Galerie Division, on view until April 30. +Joanna Berzowska (Design and Computation Arts) and Dean Rebecca Duclos speak, respectively, on the Future and Vice at Walrus Talks on April 21 and 27. +The work of Sandeep Bhagwati (Music/Theatre) is featured in a new video about his research space, matralab. +Images from the Cuisine & Confessions production by 7 doigts de la main, with set designs created Ana Cappelluto (Theatre) were recently featured in Italian Vogue. +Carmela Cucuzella (Design and Computation Arts) and Cheryl Gladu, INDI PhD student, recently launched Collaboratoire, a "boundary-breaking" exercise in climate change awareness. A call for proposals from young creative practitioners to consider the role of public art and design in issues around climate change has also been made. +Portraits en exil, an exhibition of work by Bernard Gamoy (Studio Arts), will be on view at the Galerie d’art d’Outremont until April 24. +Mitch Mitchell (Studio Arts) delves into his grandfather’s wartime service for a solo show at the Art Gallery of Nova Scotia. +Stephen Snow (Creative Arts Therapies) will present Through the Eyes of Caregivers: an ethnodrama on mental illness in the family on April 21. +Mark Sussman (Theatre) presented a paper on New York theatre collectives of the 1970s at UQÀM at a February Journée d’études on the topic of “Coprésence et Pensée du Commun dans les Pratiques Interartistiques”. He also recently gave a lecture on Café Concret, the cabaret of experimental puppetry and object performance that he founded in Montreal in 2006. Additionally, he performed as part of the OUF! Off-Casteliers Festival in Outremont and at the University of Toronto’s Jackman Humanities Institute “Animate Entities: Objects in Performance” conference last month.
 Student and alumni newsMFA student Andréanne Abbondanza-Bergeron won the $15,000 Yvonne L. Bombardier Graduate Scholarship in Visual Arts. +Several Fine Arts alumni were longlisted for the 2016 Sobey Award. Congratuations to Mark Clintberg, MA 08 and PhD 13, Jerry Ropson, MFA 09, Charles Stankievech, MFA 07, and Karen Tam, BFA 00. + Tam is also one of five nominees for the MNBAQ prize. +Art Education PhD student Emanuelle Dufour is a finalist in the SSHRC Storytellers national contest. +Noam Gagnon, BFA (contemporary dance) 92, and creative partner Dana Gingras paired up with post-rock group Godspeed You! Black Emperor, to remount their groundbreaking work monumental. +Sarah Neufeld, BFA (electroacoustic studies) 03, and her musical partner Colin Stetson, won a 2016 Juno award for instrumental album of the year. +Lights, camera…Cannes! MFA student Alisi Telengut’s 'visual poem' makes the cut. +Last week, drawing students Sophie Voyer Pelletier and Callan Ponsford were both awarded prizes for their work. +
 
EventsPoetic Prescriptions, a Faculty of Fine Arts Open Doors initiative, takes place on April 15 form 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. in the Black Box Theatre (EV S3.845). Designed and organized by Design undergraduate Lucas LaRochelle, this evening event explores the intersection of art, design, and healthcare. It is hosted in conjunction with the Creating Space Symposium, an annual meeting exploring the evolving use of arts, humanities and social sciences (AHSS) in healthcare education.FOFA Gallery – New exhibitions on view starting April 18: Jacques Bellavance's One City, Nine Towns + • Brendan Flanagan's Dense Hands, Thick Clouds + • Richard Cornelisse's Lac St-Anne +And now what? Managing the transition from student to professional artist, a panel discussion moderated by Associate Dean Anne Whitelaw and featuring artists Véronique Savard and Steven Bates, the National Gallery of Canada’s Jonathan Shaughnessy, Oboro’s Claudine Hubert and gallery owner Joyce Yahouda, will take place on April 21 at 3 p.m. +Spring Shows – From now until mid-June, check out events and exhibitions staged by students from all nine Fine Arts departments. +Visit the Fine Arts event calendar for more listings.Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFine Art Bulletin, April 2016Department of Art History
            
                Department of Art History
            Related topicsFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424