http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/finearts/2016/05/fine-arts-bulletin-may-2016.htmlAnnouncementsConvocation 2016
Faculty and staff are invited to participate as members of the platform party at Fine Arts convocation on June 8 at 7:30 p.m. If you plan to attend, please reserve your seat by May 18, if you haven’t already. +
Networked Art Histories – Call for papers
 The Networked Art Histories, 1960s to the present day (in Canada and elsewhere) conference will take place at Concordia in October. +CISSC - Call for proposals
If you have an idea for a public lecture, exhibition, workshop or symposium, the Centre for Interdisciplinary Studies in Society and Culture (CISSC) would like to help make your event happen. +
 
Research round-upConcordia will have several participants at the Subtle Technologies Festival in Toronto, May 12 to 15. Joanna Berzowska (Design and Computation Arts) will participate in the Speaker Series, MANIFOLD. Barbara Layne (Studio Arts) and Lauren Osmond, BFA 13, will present collaborative pieces from the project Maxwell’s Equations in the FUTURE PROOF wearables event. Alexis Boyle, BFA 11, will also show new work. +Juan Carlos Castro (Art Education) and Tom Waugh (Cinema) will be among the researchers presenting their work at the 84th congress of l’Association francophone pour le savoir (Acfas). +I am the Blues, the latest film by Dan Cross (Cinema), had its Canadian premiere at the Hot Docs Festival in Toronto on May 2, The film debuted last November at the International Documentary Film Festival (IDFA in Amsterdam, and had its North American premiere at SXSW in Austin Texas in March. The film will have its Canadian theatrical launch on June 3. The trailer is available online. +Ricardo Dal Farra (Music) is currently in Manizales Caldas, Columbia for the fifth edition of Balance-Unbalance (BunB), a conference he founded in 2010 and still organizes. +Dean Rebecca Duclos spoke on April 27 in Toronto at a Walrus Talk on the subject of vice. The lecture can be seen on YouTube. +
Joanna Berzowska’s Walrus Talk on the wearable technology is also available for viewing. +

In a recent op-ed piece, Jason Edward Lewis (Design and Computation Arts) and Mohawk artist Skawennati, BFA 92 / Gr Dip 96, wrote that “it is imperative that First Nations imagine how our cultures will grow and evolve.” +First Contact, an exhibition of new work by Lorraine Oades (Studio Arts), will be on view at La Maison de la culture Notre-Dame-de-Grâce until June 12, as part of the third annual International Digital Art Biennial (BIAN) festival. +A publication featuring works from the “Architecture rendez-vous Art"​ MFA seminar course, taught by Alexander Pilis (Studio Arts), is now available for purchase. In the course, students investigated the dialectical relationship between these two disciplines and constructed an intellectual framework for art and architectural discourse. +From May 14 to July 9, Marisa Portolese (Studio Arts) will show new work in a group exhibition the Lilian Rodriguez Gallery. +Inferno, the participative robotic art performance by Bill Vorn (Studio Arts), and Louis-Philippe Demers of Singapore’s Nanyang Technological University, just won a Numix award in the Experiential Cultural Production category and an honorary mention at the Prix Ars Electronica 2016 in the Interactive Art category. Inferno will be presented in Montreal at Arsenal during the Elektra festival on June 3 and 4. +The Conscience of Cinema, a 780-page tome on the work of Joris Ivens written by Tom Waugh (Cinema), was published by Amsterdam University Press and is available for free download in an open access PDF version. +Ezra Winton (Cinema) and Cinema Politica recently launched a video-on-demand service, which is committed to further promoting and disseminating the work of Cinema Politica filmmakers. +
 
Student and alumni newsConcordia students triumphed at Ubisoft's Game Lab Competition: The 'bioluminescent world' created by interdisciplinary undergrads – including Jasmine Akkermans, Étienne Legault and Gabriel St-Amant from the computation arts program – took a top prize in the Montreal-wide event. +Six Fine Arts alumni, Moyra Davey, BFA 82, Aivazian Haig, BFA, Myriam Jacob-Allard, BFA 09, Brian Jungen, attendee 93, Celia Perrin-Sidarou, BFA 08 / MFA 15, and Walter Scott, BFA 09, have been invited to participate in the Montreal Biennale, which opens on October 19 at the Musée d’Art Contemporain de Montréal. Curated by Philippe Pirotte, this year’s theme of Le Grand Balcon invites a rethinking of both the (im)possibility of emancipation through pleasure – and its urgency. +Concordia’s Yannick Desranleau (Studio Arts) and UQAM’s Guillaume Adjutor Provost have been named 2016 winners of Claudine and Stephen Bronfman Fellowship in Contemporary Art. +MFA student WhiteFeather Hunter was named as a Fond de recherche du Québec Étudiant-chercheur étoile, winning the Fonds Société et culture award in March. Learn more about her work. +Students from Design and Computation Arts’ Project Detroit: A living laboratory for a city of the future class recently made a trip to Motor City where they presented public space interventions dedicated to reinvigorating the city. +On April 28, the Mel Hoppenheim School of Cinema celebrated the achievements of its students at the annual awards. Congratulations to this year’s prizewinners! +
Design students Stéphanie Bélanger, Charlotte Krzentowski and Catherine Martial – and their ‘hamac urbain’ project - were featured on TVA’s Salut Bonjour program in April (tune in at the 1:15 mark). Read more about Hamac urbain. +
 
EventsOn now or still to come in Spring Shows: group exhibitions IGNITION 12 and MAUREEN in May, and the Graduating Students Exhibition in June. +At the FOFA Gallery until May 27 – Jacques Bellavance's One City, Nine Towns + • Brendan Flanagan's Dense Hands, Thick Clouds + • Richard Cornelisse's Lac St-Anne +Joan Jonas with Jason Moran: A lecture performance will take place at the D.B. Clarke Theatre on May 27 at 7:30 p.m. The event is presented by DHC/ART and guest curator Barbara Clausen, in collaboration with the Faculty of Fine Arts Open Doors Initiative. +The Kite for Peace, a collaborative artwork, created for the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts’ Nuit Blanche event in February with the participation of Art Education graduate students, will fly in EV Junction until September. +The Centre for the Arts in Human Development celebrates 20 years of musical theatre and the arts on June 17 and 18 with their A Night at the Oscars production. +Visit the Fine Arts event calendar for more listings.Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFine Arts Bulletin, May 2016Department of Art History
            
                Department of Art History
            Related topicsFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424