http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/conted/resources/forms.htmlFee: $25 Requests for to be waived from a prerequisite course must be made in writing to the Centre. Students must submit a Course Waiver Form with appropriate proof of experience along with a Registration Contract in order to be considered for a course waiver. A $25 Registration Fee applies each term a course waiver is requested. All course waivers are granted at the student’s risk and will not appear on the student transcript. In order to be granted a certificate or diploma, any compulsory or elective course that has been waived must be replaced by another course pre-approved by the Centre. Note: Course waivers cannot be requested for Language Institute courses.Requests to be exempted from having to complete a course must be made in writing to the Centre using the Course Exemption Form. Students must submit a transcript of grades and a course description as proof that a course has been successfully completed at another educational institution in order to be granted an exemption.

All students wishing to be exempted from a Computer Institute course must successfully complete an exam to prove their mastery of the course content.

Students requesting to be exempted from a course based on non-academic experience must successfully complete an exam to prove their mastery of the course content.

A $75 fee applies for each exemption exam.

A maximum of 60 course hours per diploma program or 20 course hours per certificate program can be exempted without having to replace the exempted course(s) with another course from the program. All course exemptions that are granted will appear on the student transcript.

Note: Course exemptions cannot be requested for Language Institute courses.Students can, at no charge, access their grades or print their transcript on-line through the MyConcordia portal. Use your Netname and password to log into the portal then click on the Continuing Education Menu link. Should you require the Centre for Continuing Education to print and mail a transcript on your behalf, please use one of the following request forms.Unofficial Transcripts: Fee $10. Students who wish to have the Centre for Continuing Education mail a copy of their Unofficial Transcript to their residence may do so by completing a Transcript Request Form and submitting it to the Centre for Continuing Education. Requests will be processed within 5 working days.Official Transcripts: Fee $10. Official transcripts are only sent to educational institutions or official organizations. They are not issued to students. To request that an Official Transcript be sent, students must complete a Transcript Request Form and submit it to the Centre for Continuing Education. Requests will be processed within 5 working days.Language Institute Programs: A Certificate of Proficiency is automatically awarded upon successful completion of the highest level within the second language program.Part-time Professional Career Programs: Fee $25. To receive a Program Certificate, part-time professional career students must submit a Certificate Application Form. It is suggested that students submit this form while registered in their final course of the program.Duplicate Certificates (All Programs): Fee $25. Students may request a duplicate copy of their certificate at any time. It should be noted that the notation “Duplicate” will appear in the bottom left corner of the document. To request a duplicate copy of a program certificate, students must complete a Certificate Application Form and submit it to the Centre for Continuing Education.Intensive Professional Career Programs: A Program Diploma is automatically awarded upon successful completion of the program requirements for students registered in an intensive program.Part-time Professional Career Programs: Fee $50. To receive a Program Diploma, part-time professional career students must submit a Diploma Application Form. It is suggested that students submit this form while registered in their final course of the program.Duplicate Diplomas (All Programs): Fee $50. Students may request a duplicate copy of their diploma at any time. It should be noted that the notation “Duplicate” will appear in the bottom left corner of the document. To request a duplicate copy of a program diploma, students must complete a Diploma Application Form and submit it to the Centre for Continuing Education.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFormsContinuing Education
            
                Continuing EducationTo request a course waiver
                
            
                
					
                    To request a course exemption
                
            
                
					
                    To request a transcript of grades
                
            
                
					
                    To request a program certificate
                
            
                
					
                    To request a program diplomaConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424