http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/calendar/current/jmsb/gdba-gcba.htmlAdmission RequirementsApplicants must possess a Bachelor’s degree with a minimum cumulative grade point average of 2.70 on a scale of 4.30, or equivalent. Applicants are also required to submit a Statement of Purpose and two letters of recommendation.Proficiency in English or French. Applicants whose first language is not English or French, and who are not Canadian citizens or permanent residents, must achieve a satisfactory performance in the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) or the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) before being considered for admission. The minimum required score for the TOEFL iBT is 90. The IELTS Academic requires a minimum Band score of 6.5. This requirement is waived for foreign students who have completed their undergraduate degree at a university where English or French is the language of instruction.The Program reserves the right to require applicants to write tests of competence in English as a second language, and to take any English courses deemed necessary as a result of such tests. Please note these courses are not counted towards the Diploma credit requirements.Requirements for the DiplomaAcademic RegulationsGPA Requirements. The academic standing of each student is reviewed at the end of each term. To be permitted to continue in the program, students must obtain a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 2.70. Students whose GPA falls below 2.70 are considered to be on conditional standing during the following review period. Students who do not meet the requirements of their conditional standing are considered failed students and are withdrawn from the program. They may apply in writing to the Program Director for re-admission.Failure Regulations. Students who receive a failing grade in the course of their studies, or who do not meet the requirements of their conditional standing, are withdrawn from the program. They may apply in writing to the Program Director for re-admission.Graduation Requirement. In order to graduate, students must have a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.70.Required Core Courses (27 credits)GDBA 530 Business Data Analytics
 GDBA 531 Professional Business Skills
 GDBA 532 Accounting
GDBA 533 Managing People in Organizations
GDBA 534 Marketing Management
GDBA 535 Finance
GDBA 536 Operations Management
GDBA 537 Managerial Economics
GDBA 538 Strategic ManagementElective (3 credits)GDBA 595 Special TopicsCourse Descriptions (Core Courses)GDBA 530 Business Data Analytics (3 credits)
This course provides students with the skills and knowledge needed to analyze business data. Using spreadsheet software throughout the course, students learn to summarize and describe data with charts, graphs and numbers, to visualize and measure relationships in data and acquire the ability to make inferences and predictions. Students acquire a working knowledge of the statistical tools and techniques required for better decision making. The course combines lecturing with actual business applications and class discussions aimed at encouraging critical thinking, analytical skills and ethical manipulation and reporting of data.
Note 1: Students who have successfully completed a statistics course in a previous program with a minimum grade of “B” may be exempt from taking GDBA 530 with the permission of the Program Director. In this case, the course must be substituted with an elective.
Note 2: Students who have received credit for GDBA 502 may not take this course for credit.GDBA 531 Professional Business Skills (3 credits)
This course provides students with the necessary skills that help with successful interaction with others in business settings. Topics include designing and delivering effective written and oral messages from concept to delivery, working in groups, and negotiating and resolving conflict by using ethical communication tactics. Pedagogical methods include group-based work, in-class workshops, case studies, presentations and report writing.GDBA 532 Accounting (3 credits)
This course surveys financial and managerial accounting from the point of view of the users of financial information. Financial accounting topics include the framework of financial accounting, the analysis of transactions, and the preparation and analysis of financial statements. Topics in management accounting are budgeting and control, costing and cost allocation, the cost-volume-profit planning model, and short-term and long-term decision making in business. The ethical dimensions of accounting are explored throughout the course. Pedagogical methods include lectures, exercises, case studies and class discussions.
Note: Students who have received credit for GDBA 501 may not take this course for credit.GDBA 533 Managing People in Organizations (3 credits)
Prerequisites: GDBA 531 previously or concurrently.
This course is concerned with understanding and managing individual and group behaviour in organizations. It examines themes such as personality, motivation, emotions, leadership, ethics, and group dynamics and how they relate to the role of managers in organizations. The course covers these topics in an integrated manner so as to prepare students to become effective managers. Pedagogical methods include in-class exercises and case studies.
Note: Students who have received credit for GDBA 503 may not take this course for credit.GDBA 534 Marketing Management (3 credits)
Prerequisites: GDBA 531 previously or concurrently.
This course is designed to provide students with the necessary skills to develop a marketing plan.  Topics include micro- and macro-level environmental analysis, customer behaviour, market segmentation, value generating practices and developing a complete marketing plan. Pedagogical methods include lectures, case studies and in-class presentations.
Note: Students who have received credit for GDBA 504 may not take this course for credit.GDBA 535 Finance (3 credits)
Prerequisite: GDBA 530 previously or concurrently, and 532.
This course provides students with a general understanding of the fundamental concepts of finance as they apply to financial management and investment analysis.  Building on the objective of firm value maximization, students learn to describe and value risky financial securities and long-term capital projects as well as to manage the firm’s short-term financial planning and decisions. Pedagogical methods include exercises, cases, simulations and class discussions.
Note: Students who have received credit for GDBA 505 may not take this course for credit.GDBA 536 Operations Management (3 credits)
Prerequisites: GDBA 530 previously or concurrently.
This course provides students with the quantitative and qualitative techniques to achieve efficient and effective utilization of scarce resources in business. Topics include planning, management and control of labour, machinery, material, money, information and time resources in manufacturing and service sectors. Recent developments in these areas are introduced within the context of manufacturing and service strategies. The course uses class discussion, case analysis and simulation to illustrate key concepts and practices in operations management. The interactions with other functional areas, such as information systems, marketing, accounting and finance are discussed through case studies.
Note: Students who have received credit for GDBA 506 may not take this course for credit.GDBA 537 Managerial Economics (3 credits)
Prerequisites: GDBA 530 previously or concurrently.
This course introduces the principles of economics.  The emphasis is on the role of the decision maker who has to identify and implement profitable decisions.  The course applies economic reasoning to business problems including bargaining, adverse selection, moral hazard, and incentive alignment. Pedagogical methods include exercises, cases and class discussions.
Note: Students who have received credit for GDBA 507 may not take this course for credit.GDBA 538 Strategic Management (3 credits)
Prerequisites: 12 credits including GDBA 530 and 531.
This capstone course provides students with an understanding of how firms gain and sustain competitive advantage in various business sectors. Specific topics include industry environment analysis, internal analysis of firm resources and capabilities, the analysis of business and corporate level strategies, and various strategic alternatives such as mergers and acquisitions, strategic alliances, and internationalization strategies. The course uses case analysis as the main approach to build abilities in strategic analysis and decision making.Course Description (Elective)GDBA 595 Special Topics (3 credits)
Special topics for this course are stated in the Class Schedule.TopAdmission RequirementsApplicants must possess a Bachelor’s degree with a minimum cumulative grade point average of 2.70 on a scale of 4.30, or equivalent. Applicants are also required to submit a Statement of Purpose and two letters of recommendation.Proficiency in English or French.Applicants whose first language is not English or French, and who are not Canadian citizens or permanent residents, must achieve a satisfactory performance in the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) or the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) before being considered for admission. The minimum required score for the TOEFL iBT is 90. The IELTS Academic requires a minimum band score of 6.5. This requirement is waived for foreign students who have completed their undergraduate degree at a university where English or French is the language of instruction.The Program reserves the right to require applicants to write tests of competence in English as a second language, and to take any English courses deemed necessary as a result of such tests. Please note these courses are not counted towards the Certificate credit requirements.Requirements for the CertificateAcademic RegulationsGPA Requirements. The academic standing of each student is reviewed at the end of each term. To be permitted to continue in the program, students must obtain a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 2.70. Students whose GPA falls below 2.70 are considered to be on conditional standing during the following review period. Students who do not meet the requirements of their conditional standing are considered failed students and are withdrawn from the program. They may apply in writing to the Program Director for readmission.Failure Regulations. Students who receive a failing grade in the course of their studies, or who do not meet the requirements of their conditional standing, are withdrawn from the program. They may apply in writing to the Program Director for re-admission.Graduation Requirement. In order to graduate, students must have a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.70.Required Courses (15 credits)GDBA 530 Business Data Analytics
 GDBA 531 Professional Business Skills
GDBA 532 Accounting
GDBA 533 Managing People in Organizations 
GDBA 534 Marketing ManagementStudents who are exempted from GDBA 530 may take one of the following GDBA courses as a substitute, upon approval from the Program Director:GDBA 535 Finance 
 GDBA 536 Operations Management
 GDBA 537 Managerial Economics
 GDBA 538 Strategic ManagementGDBA 595 Special TopicsCourse Descriptions (Core Courses)Course Descriptions (Electives)Students who are exempted from GDBA 530 may take one of the following GDBA courses as a substitute, upon approval from the Program Director:GDBA 595 Special Topics (3 credits)Top© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
Business AdministrationPrograms
Graduate Diploma in Business Administration
Graduate Certificate in Business AdministrationGraduate Diploma/Certificate in Business Administration WebsiteConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424