http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/diploma/students/gdba-gcba-student-profiles.htmlI chose the GDBA because I saw it as a way to gain good knowledge of business and competencies in a field different to the one in which I earned my degree. The classes are hands-on and lectures are conducted in a way that allows students to see themselves as potential managers. I was initially concerned by my lack of knowledge in the field but the professors are aware of the diversity of students’ educational backgrounds and adapt their lectures accordingly.The classes put you in real-life situations so what you learn is very applicable. The classes are also fun, as long as you do your part studying and contributing! Why JMSB: I chose JMSB because I liked the curriculum it offers for graduate diploma students. JMSB’s international reputation has played a major role in my choice as well. Moreover, the program doesn’t require any work experience or GMAT as admission requirement. Hence, being a fresh graduate, I thought the GDBA at JMSB would be the right choice for me to gain a better understanding of the Canadian business environment in one year only!Your Experience at JMSB: From the moment I started in the program, I have been engaged with campus activities that JMSB facilitates for students: this has transformed my persona. One gets every opportunity to learn, to grow and to be their best at JMSB- both academically and professionally.  Experienced faculty, student friendly administration, outstanding student activities and great networking opportunities with a variety of industries, altogether make a remarkable experience for students at JMSB. I am really proud to be a part of our school.I chose JMSB mainly because of the great emphasis the school puts on extracurricular activities. I did not only seek theoretical knowledge but to have a real life experience. JMSB is very successful in connecting the class to the work environment, students to employers, and group projects to real businesses.As a web developer for more than 5 years already, I joined the GCBA program to get more involved in strategic planning, business development and brand management, which will hopefully lead me to a managerial position. I also consider the GCBA program the perfect preparation for me to gain basic academic business knowledge before pursuing an MBA, then maybe also a DBA.Having completed a bachelors in Political Science, I decided to pursue the GDBA to grow my understanding of business and to develop my business network. The program is opening many career opportunities for me by expanding my knowledge and by connecting me with hardworking, passionate people. Everyone I encounter at JMSB is willing to help: my professors, my classmates, my tutors. That’s why JMSB is considered one of the top business schools in North America.Why JMSB: As a new immigrant in Montreal, I believe that JMSB’s GDBA is the perfect fit to help me enter the Canadian labour market. Coupled with my business management skills and industry expertise in Vietnam, the program is providing me with advanced knowledge in finance and strategic management as well as a better understanding of the business environment in Canada.Your Experience at JMSB: I greatly appreciate the administrative staff who are always ready to listen and give students strong support and valuable advice. I’m proud to be a graduate student of one of top business schools in North America and enjoy every day that I spend with my excellent professors and classmates.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityGDBA/GCBA student profilesJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessIbikunle Ajayi
                
            
                
					
                    Suparna Barai
                
            
                
					
                    Mina Younan Guerguis
                
            
                
					
                    Mohamed Refaat
                
            
                
					
                    Khanh VanConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424