http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/art-education/programs/graduate-student-information.htmlCurrent course descriptionsFor further information on the courses, please contact the instructors directly.For registration before June 1, 2016 please contact the Graduate Program Director Kathleen Vaughan, kathleen.vaughan@concordia.caFor registration after June 1, 2016 please contact the Graduate Program Director Lorrie Blair, lorrie.blair@concordia.caNote: 600-level courses are Master’s courses, 800-level courses are PhD courses; most courses are cross-listed between the two levels. Note: 600-level courses are Master’s courses, 800-level courses are PhD courses; most courses are cross-listed between the two levelsARTE 670/870 Critical Perspectives on Art Education: History, Theory and Practice (3 credits)Semester: Fall Day & Time: Monday 18:30-20:30 Place: EV-6.735 Instructor: Anita Sinner, anita.sinner@concordia.caA seminar course in which students develop critical reading and writing skills while adding to their understanding of trends past and present that have shaped the field of art education.ARTE 672/872 Advanced Critical Analysis (3 credits -prerequisite ARTE 670)Semester: Winter Day & Time: Monday 18:30-20:30 Place: EV-6.735 Instructor: David Pariser, david.pariser@concordia.caA seminar course in which students develop advanced skills in critical analysis, academic writing and library research. Assignments include compiling and writing a review of literature on a topic of research or professional interest.ARTE 680 Research I: Foundations for Inquiry (3 credits)Semester: Fall  Day & Time: Wednesday 16:00 - 18:00 Place: EV-6.735 Instructor: Lorrie Blair, lorrie.blair@concordia.caA seminar course in which students are introduced to the basic concepts, terminology and contexts of inquiry in art education. Students learn about the practice of systematic inquiry, including: identifying and articulating a topic or question; situating the inquiry within a theoretical framework relating the inquiry to art education practices; and selecting appropriate inquiry procedures. Each student develops a proposal for a small-scale project related to his/her particular art education interests.ARTE 682/882 Research Practice (3 credits -prerequisite ARTE 680 )Semester: Winter Day & Time: Wednesday 16:00 - 18:00 Place: EV-6.735 Instructor: Lorrie Blair, lorrie.blair@concordia.caA seminar course in which students conduct a small-scale research project based on their own research proposal. Students are introduced to appropriate forms and practices for conducting the project and presenting the results.          ARTE 606-9/806-7 Studio Inquiry (3 credits each): Studio Inquiry:The Right to the City: Post-Industrial EcologiesSemester: Fall  Day & Time: Thursdays 14:00-18:00 (Class) Place: Off-site in Pointe-St-Charles (Metro: Charlevoix) Instructor: Kathleen Vaughan, Kathleen.Vaughan@concordia.caThis special fall session of Studio Inquiry is one of four interdisciplinary tethered courses that take up the theme “The Right to the City” and are oriented to students’ learning in place, from a place, that place being the post-industrial and gentrifying neighbourhood of Pointe-St-Charles, a unique and iconic Montreal locale. Art Education students will work alongside students in courses in History (Dr. Steven High), Art History (Dr. Cynthia Hammond) and Theatre (Dr. Ted Little), each course having its own structure and objectives as well as occasional joint sessions. All students together will develop a common final installation/event showcasing their multimodal achievements.Art education students may choose to create individual research-based artwork that responds to the neighbourhood, work in partnership with students in other classes (e.g. creating artistic contributions to Steven High’s History students’ proposed historical path/sentier historique in St. Gabriel Park) or collaborate with local participants in community art-making in social service agencies such as Madame Prend Congé, the Carrefour d’Éducation Populaire, the Art Hive of Point-St-Charles, etc. Options will be discussed at our first session, September 10th.ARTE 606-9/806-7 Studio Inquiry (3 credits each):Water 2.0: Art and FieldworkSemester: Winter Day & Time: Monday 14:00-18:00 (Class) & 14:00-16:00 (Lab) Place: EV-2.645 Instructor: MJ Thompson, mj.thompson@concordia.caWhat constitutes “the field” for artists working today? And how has the notion of the field, as a site of research, representation and cultural contact, been critically reimagined in recent years? Finally, how might work in the field facilitate extended progress around environmental protection? This studio once again focuses on water/s as inspiration for composition, creation and education and takes fieldwork--that is, immersive off-campus experiences--as a central methodology. We will meet with artists, ethnographers and scientists working on environmental literacy. ‪This year, we bridge the arts, ethnography and environmental science to extend our creative practices and our understanding of the science underpinning water as life source.ARTE 660/850Q Selected Topics in Art Education (3 credits):Portrayals of Teacher’s Lives: Investigating Education through Pop CultureSemester: Fall  Day & Time: Tuesday 16:00-18:00 Place: EV- 6.735 Instructor: Anita Sinner, anita.sinner@concordia.caThis course surveys how the experiences of teachers are represented in pop culture through a wide range of stories told in film, television and music. These narrative depictions offer diverse approaches to investigate life writing about education, and include historical, documentary, biographical, romantic, critical, tragic, comic, and ironic perspectives. Informed by current theoretical perspectives of narrative inquiry and cultural studies, and visual and textual methods of analysis, this course interrogates teacher cloaks and clichés in order to reveal how these narratives contribute to the construction of attitudes and views about teachers and teaching in society. This course will inform the practice of teacher education, as well as offer alternative understandings about the identity construction of teachers, and pop culture as public pedagogy.ARTE 660/850R Selected Topics in Art Education (3 credits):Creating the “Peace Trail” Audio Guide in the Montreal Museum of Fine ArtsSemester: Winter Day & Time: Tuesday 16:00 – 18:00 Place: EV-6.735 Instructor: Kathleen Vaughan, kathleen.vaughan@concordia.caExploring both theory and practice, this course will take students through the process of creating the Peace Trail, a collaborative audiowalk/soundscape for the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts’ new Pavilion of Peace. Students will work together to create an audio interpretation of the theme of peace in the art museum, in a course that explores the public pedagogies of the audio walk as an aesthetic and educational practice. Drawing on the expertise of Concordia’s Centre for Oral History and Digital Storytelling and the Museum’s Educart web-based resource, student will learn creative, conceptual, technical and practical skills as they create a one-of-a-kind artwork as a contribution to the new Pavilion and its visitors.ARTE 884 Doctoral SeminarSemester: Fall Day & Time: Wednesday 18:30 – 20:30 Place: EV-6.735 Instructor: Lorrie Blair, lorrie.blair@concordia.caThis course addresses research and communication, thesis writing, and professional practice.Suggested plan of study for MA studentsTheses procedures© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityGraduate student informationDepartment of Art Education
            
                Department of Art EducationMA & PhD
                
            
                
					
                    24 credit Thesis option. Full-time load.
                
            
                
					
                    Courses option. Full-time load.Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424