http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/admissions/tuition-fees/quebec-residency/guidelines.htmlBefore you complete the Quebec residency application, please check the deadlines and guidelines below.Here are the deadlines to apply for and submit all required documents for Quebec Resident status:The Government of Quebec does not allow retroactive Quebec Resident status.Once you have all your documentation together and you are ready to apply:*If you have problems with the online submissions, you can also send your applications by:By Fax:
514-848-8631In-Person:
 Birks Student Service Centre
1400 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West, Room LB-185By Mail or Courier:
 Concordia University
Office of the Registrar, LB-700
1455 De Maisonneuve W.
Montreal, Quebec
Canada H3G 2S2Contact phone number for courier:
514-848-2424Once approved, students who are considered permanent Quebec residents never have to renew their Quebec residency status. You are considered a permanent resident if you are:All other situations are considered temporary categories. If you are considered temporary you only have to renew your residency status if you are absent for more than two sessions (not including Summer sessions). If you are not eligible for Quebec Resident status under one of the 14 situations, you may be eligible for one of the other situations. Or you may plan you studies so as to eligible at a later date.For Quebec Residency purposes, full-time and part-time status does not correspond to what is in the Concordia calendar. This is how the Quebec government defines it: For Undergraduate studentsFor Graduate students in a Graduate Independent, Diploma or Certificate program:Also, when counting the number of credits per term, courses with the grade DISC are included but courses that were withdrawn before the deadline to obtain a refund and that received the grade DNE are not included.Graduate students in a Masters or PhD program are classified as Full-Time or Part-Time at the time of initial registration in the program. This classification of Masters FT/PT status may be used for Quebec Residency purposes.No, there is no specific connection between a Permanent Code and Québec residency. A Permanent Code is a unique identifying code assigned by the Ministry of Education to all students who attend an educational institution in Québec regardless of where they come from and regardless of their residency status. Even if you have a Permanent Code you will still have to prove that you are eligible for Québec resident status..Quebec.Residency@concordia.ca© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityDeadlines & guidelinesStep 3: Check deadlines and guidelinesDeadlinesGuidelinesQuestions?Related LinksSubmitting application and documents
                
            
                
					
                    Renewing of your Quebec Residency status
                
            
                
					
                    If your application is rejected
                
            
                
					
                    Full-time versus part-time student status
                
            
                
					
                    If I have a Permanent Code, does this mean I am automatically a Québec Resident?Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424