http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/releases/2016/10/12/honorary-doctorates-fall-2016.htmlMontreal, October 12, 2016 – Concordia University will present honorary doctorates to four individuals who have made their mark in the fields of journalism, philanthropy, academia and aviation. They will received their honorary doctorates during fall convocation ceremonies, taking place November 7 in Place des Arts’ Théâtre Maisonneuve (175 Ste-Catherine St. W.). The honorands will join more than 1,850 students from four faculties as well as the School of Graduate Studies who will be receiving their diplomas.November 7, 10 a.m. – Faculty of Arts and ScienceNahlah Ayed – for her courageous and compassionate journalismAyed is a foreign correspondent for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation and the author of the memoir, A Thousand Farewells: A Reporter’s Journey from Refugee Camp to the Arab Spring. Ayed is best known for her reporting from the Middle East notably during the U.S. led invasion of Iraq in 2003 and the 2006 war in Lebanon. Ayed has also covered humanitarian crises including the ongoing exodus of Syrian refugees to Europe.November 7, 3 p.m. – John Molson School of BusinessCalin Rovinescu – for his inspired leadership in the aviation industryRovinescu has been president and CEO of Air Canada since 2009 and has served as Chairman of Star Alliance and of IATA. Under his leadership, the airline has undergone a complex transformation, built a strong international franchise and achieved record profitability. The Globe and Mail’s Report on Business named him Canada’s Best CEO in 2013 and he was ranked as number one CEO in the Financial Post's 2014 CEO rankings. Prior to his tenure at Air Canada, Rovinescu was the managing partner of the law firm Stikeman Elliott, specializing in business law. He was also a co-founder of Genuity Capital Markets, a leading independent investment bank. 
November 7, 7:30 p.m. – Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science & Faculty of Fine Arts (joint ceremony)Régine A. Chassagne – for her commitment to Haiti and her impact on the international music sceneA founding member of the music group Arcade Fire, Chassagne is a multi-instrumentalist, singer and songwriter. The band has won popular and critical praise around the world as well as a Grammy for Record of the Year in 2011. Chassagne has also been a dedicated supporter of Haiti, the country where her parents were born, through her work with Partners in Health and the Kanpe Foundation, the organization she co-founded to battle poverty through sustainable solutions.Maria Klawe – for her scholarly work in the field of computer science and mathematics as well as her advocacy on behalf of women and minorities in engineering, science and mathematicsKlawe is president of Harvey Mudd College in California. A computer scientist, Klawe worked in research and management at IBM. She also held professorships at Oakland University and the University of Toronto, and served as vice-president of Student and Academic Services at the University of British Columbia as well as dean of Engineering and professor of computer science at Princeton.Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityConcordia University awards honorary doctorates to four distinguished individualsNews
            
                News
            Join the conversationThe honorands are:SourceFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424