http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/research/for-researchers/funding-opportunities/internal-funding-awards.htmlBelow you will find information on internal funding and award opportunities.
An individual or a group of researchers can apply for funding support. The internal funding programs are designed to complement and leverage external funding opportunities.For these Office of the Vice-President, Research and Graduate Studies (OVPRGS) funding programs, please note that your faculty will have an earlier internal deadline and other specific requirements for submission, to allow for review by the Faculty Research Committee. Each faculty may have other special programs as well. Contact the Office of Research or your faculty’s research facilitator for further information. Please check the dates of the internal award competitions by clicking on the PDF link. Office of the Vice-President, Research and Graduate Studies Mobilizing Knowledge CompetitionsTo stimulate exchange and transfer of knowledge as well as support visibility and outreach initiatives as diverse as workshops, conference, lectures, visiting scholars/artists, publications, and exhibitions.There are two competitions per year (fall/spring).Guide to ConRAD
MyConcordiaUp to $5,000.
In special cases when properly justified, a higher amount can be considered.Matching funds (1:1) are required.Team Start-up/Accelerator Program provides short-term support for research projects that have a high potential to build new partnerships, and to attract external funding for continuation of the research. This program supports two types of projects: Start-Up (Year 1 of funding) and Accelerator (Year 2 of funding). Guide to ConRAD
MyConcordiaUp to $20,000 for Start-UpUp to $40,000 for AcceleratorSeed funding supports the development of innovative early stage research/creation projects by providing funding for the initial phase of a project. Usually a short-term research project with the purpose of undertaking pilot studies, collecting and analyzing initial data, validating new methodologies or approaches, or developing new partnerships.Guide to ConRAD
MyConcordiaTo optimize research infrastructure by upgrading existing equipment and systems or adding complimentary small components or pieces.Upgrading existing equipment and systems will be given priority over new purchases.Guide to ConRAD
MyConcordiaUp to $20,000Matching funds (1:1) are required.To recognize, promote, and support outstanding and innovative emerging researchers whose work contribute significantly to the training environment of the University and have an impact on society at large. This annual award, made possible by Suncor Energy’s generous endowment to Concordia University, is intended to articulate the commitment of Suncor Energy and Concordia to support researchers at the launch of their scholarly careers and enable them to carry their research forward.Important:
 If you are trying to access ConRAD off-campus, you must login to Concordia's VPN service.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityInternal funding and award opportunitiesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424