http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/polisci/research/international-political-science-association-.htmlThe International Political Science Association (IPSA) was founded in Paris in 1949 under the aegis of UNESCO. The special mandate of IPSA is to support the development of political science in all parts of the world, and to create an inclusive and global political science community in which all can participate. It seeks to promote collaboration between scholars in emerging and established democracies and to support the academic freedoms needed for the social sciences to flourish. As such, IPSA holds its World Congress every two years, which brings together more than 3000 political scientists, as well as publishes numerous scientific publications and research tools such as the International Political Science Review, World Political Science and the IPSA Portal.The IPSA Secretariat was implemented at Concordia University in 2006, under the initiative of Guy Lachapelle, current Secretary General of IPSA and full-time Concordia professor. IPSA’s collaboration with Concordia goes a long way: IPSA and Concordia jointly organized workshops and events in the past, and more recently Concordia sponsored numerous IPSA activities such as the World Congress of Political Science in Montreal in 2014 and the World Social Science Forum in 2013. Prof. Lachapelle is a renowned academic, and his reputation goes beyond Concordia and IPSA.IPSA takes great responsibility in being accessible to younger political science researchers, by providing membership discounts, preferential rates for its activities, free access to its publications or a listing of available jobs, fellowships and internships offers. IPSA is proud to create an academic environment where students, young researchers and seasoned academics can discuss of the current state of political science and create innovative collaboration.The International Political Science Association will hold its next World Congress in Istanbul, Turkey, from July 23rd to 28th 2016. The theme of this edition is "Politics in a World of Inequality." For more information about the Congress, please visit its website.
Site web en français© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityInternational Political Science Association  (IPSA)Department of Political Science
            
                Department of Political ScienceConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424