http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/conted/resources/international.htmlMontreal, Canada is an exciting addition to your international experience. Montreal, an island city of 2.5 million, is one of the oldest and safest cities in North America; it has a large French and English speaking population and its many ethno- cultural communities complement the city's vibrant European cosmopolitan atmosphere. Montreal's four seasons of fall, winter, spring and summer afford a unique opportunity for all kinds of recreational activities from skating and skiing in the winter to our world famous Jazz Festival and Just for Laughs Comedy Festival in the summer.The Centre for Continuing Education, as an integral part of Concordia University, delivers a wide range of innovative, non-credit courses and programs. The Centre is one of Quebec’s finest continuing education providers that is committed to offering local and international students the opportunity to pursue lifelong learning to fulfil personal, professional or academic goals. Our modern and spacious classrooms, state-of-the- art computer labs and professional dedicated teaching staff ensure that students receive a first class educational experience in comfortable, friendly and safe surroundings. The Centre is located in the heart of downtown Montreal within one block of all major bus and metro (subway) lines.The Intensive English Language Program
This ESL program, made up of eight levels, prepares students to enter English-language universities or colleges. Professionals who require a high level of competency can also benefit from the program. Students are trained to read academic, as well as non-academic materials, listen to formal and informal talks, conversations, and lectures; participate in discussions, debates, and seminars; and write letters, papers, and exams, as well as acquire good studyskills. Homework and group work are integral to the program. A certificate of proficiency is awarded upon the successful completion (60%) of the Advanced 2 level. A certificate of proficiency— with distinction is awarded to students who obtain a grade of 80% or more upon completion of the Advanced 2 level. Students who successfully complete the Advanced 2 level with a final grade of 70% or higher, and who opt to enrol in full-time credit studies at Concordia University, will automatically meet the University’s English language proficiency requirements for admission.Professional Career Programs
The Centre is committed to delivering superior professional career training. These non-credit courses and programs—taught by industry professionals—are designed for individuals who are interested in acquiring the necessary career skills to meet the challenges of today’s workforce. The courses are open to those who are 18 years of age or older, regardless of educational backgrounds. To earn a certificate, students must take 80 course hours within a study area’s specific field whereas to earn a diploma, they must complete three certificates or 240 course hours that cover a broader study area. Summer Housing at Concordia University click hereCentre for Continuing Education
514-848-3600514-848-2806cce@concordia.ca
Our location
First Floor FB-117
1600 Ste-Catherine West
Montréal, Québec, Canada,
H3G 1M8Mailing address
Concordia University
Centre for Continuing Education
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West
Montréal, Québec, Canada,
H3G 1M8© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityInternational studentsContinuing Education
            
                Continuing Education
            Programs for international studentsContact usLocationAbout usOur top international programsOffice hoursConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424