http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/polisci/about/jobs.htmlTenure-Track Position in Political Science, Specializing in Human RightsThe Department of Political Science at Concordia University in Montreal, Quebec, is seeking applications for a tenure-track appointment in Political Science, with a specialization in human rights. Preference will be given to research in International Relations. Applicants must have a Ph.D., or be near completion of a doctoral degree, in Political Science or International Relations. The ability to fulfill core teaching needs in the undergraduate and graduate (MPPPA and Ph.D.) curriculum is an asset. The successful candidate will provide evidence of a productive research agenda and teaching effectiveness.Applications must consist of a cover letter, a current curriculum vitae, copies of recent publications, a statement of teaching philosophy/interests, a statement of research achievements/interests, and evidence of teaching effectiveness.  Candidates must also arrange to have three letters of reference sent directly to the department contact.Dr. Marlene Sokolon
 Chair, Department of Political Science
 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
 Montréal, Québec, Canada, H3G 1M8PoliticalScience.Chair@concordia.cahttp://www.concordia.ca/artsci/polisci.htmlSubject to budgetary approval, we anticipate filling this position, normally at the rank of Assistant Professor, for August 1, 2017. Completed applications are due by December 12, 2016, but will be considered until the position has been filled. All inquiries about the position should be directed to Dr. Sokolon:PoliticalScience.Chair@Concordia.caAll qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadian citizens and permanent residents of Canada will be given priority. Concordia University is committed to employment equity.Employment equityAll qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadian citizens and permanent residents of Canada will be given priority. Concordia University is committed to employment equity. © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityJob opportunitiesDepartment of Political Science
            
                Department of Political Science
            Join the ConversationUniversity Staff OpportunitiesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/journalism/about/jobs.htmlThe Concordia University Journalism Department is pleased to offer a space to organizations and individuals who wish to reach out to our students for job and internship possibilities. The Department does not endorse nor promote them. Individual students are expected to investigate and evaluate the positions and opportunities that they wish to explore.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityStudent OpportunitiesDepartment of Journalism
            
                Department of Journalism
            Faculty positionsJoin the conversationUniversity Staff OpportunitiesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/coms/about/jobs.htmlFind job and internship opportunities on the COMS Guild website.Limited term appointments available in the following areas:© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityDepartment of Communication Studies
            
                Department of Communication Studies
            Student job oppourtunitiesJoin the ConversationFaculty oppourtunitiesUniversity Staff OpportunitiesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/music/about/jobs.htmlFaculty of Fine Arts
 Department of Music
514-848-2424, ext. 4559music@concordia.caDepartment of Music - Office
 1550 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West
GM 500-01
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8Department of Music - Classes 
 & performance space
 1450 Guy St.
 MB 8th floor 
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3H 0A1Department of Music
 Concordia University
1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8© Concordia UniversityAbout the department
Programs
Research & creation
Facilities
Student life
News & events
 Contact usConcordia UniversityJob opportunitiesDepartment of Music
            
                Department of Music
            Contact usLocationMailing addressJoin the conversationConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/cinema/about/jobs.htmlPlease see faculty position openings on the Faculty of Fine Arts website.Consult Human Resources for other job postings at Concordia.© Concordia UniversityMel Hoppenheim School of CinemaConcordia UniversityJob opportunitiesMel Hoppenheim School of Cinema
            
                Mel Hoppenheim School of CinemaConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/philosophy/about/jobs.html© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityJob opportunitiesDepartment of Philosophy
            
                Department of Philosophy
            Join the ConversationThere are no open opportunities at this timeUniversity Staff OpportunitiesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/art-education/about/jobs.htmlThere are currently no job opportunities in the Department of Art Education. Please see faculty position openings on the Faculty of Fine Arts website. © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityJob opportunitiesDepartment of Art Education
            
                Department of Art Education
            Join the conversationConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/conted/about-cce/jobs.htmlThe Centre for Continuing Education is looking for instructors who are passionate about their field of expertise and want to share their enthusiasm with students eager to learn.Instructors are currently needed for the following course(s):Course Description: 
This course provides an introductory overview of the business organization, focusing on both internal issues such as the structure of business, its principle functions and activities, and social and ethical concerns, as well as external issues, such as the economic, technological, and competitive landscapes and how these influence decision-making.Schedules: 
(40 hours) MoTuWeThFr  13:00-15:30   (16-Jan to 06-Feb)Key responsibilities include preparation of the course according to a course plan provided, delivery of the course, and evaluation of student performance.Qualifications:
Ideal candidates are individuals who are active practitioners in the field and who keep up with the latest trends and methodologies. We are looking for instructors who want to share their knowledge, including the concepts and the practical application of those concepts.Qualified candidates would have an MBA or MSc (Administration) or equivalent, as well as 5 years of professional business experience in a large or medium sized enterprise where candidate was meaningfully involved with traditional business functions such as marketing, management, finance, accounting and human resources or equivalent.   3 years relevant teaching experience or equivalent. Experience in the competency-based approach to teaching and learning is an asset.Application deadline:   December 7, 2016Interested candidates are asked to send a CV and cover letter to Sandra Rozansky <sandra.rozansky@concordia.ca>Course Description: 
This course provides tools which are necessary to (a) understand the many cultural dimensions that face business managers, (b) manage a diverse work environment, (c) integrate within a foreign work setting, (d) communicate with foreign business partners and associates effectively and with sensitivity, and (e) successfully navigate culture shock and the related stress upon returning home.Schedules: 
(40 hours) MoTuWeThFr  13:00-15:30   (03-Mar to 24-Mar) Key responsibilities include preparation of the course according to a course plan provided, delivery of the course, and evaluation of student performance.Qualifications:
Ideal candidates are individuals who are active practitioners in the field and who keep up with the latest trends and methodologies. We are looking for instructors who want to share their knowledge, including the concepts and the practical application of those concepts.Qualified candidates would have an MBA or MSc (Administration) or equivalent, as well as 5 years of professional, diverse and relevant business experience of on-site management of foreign offices, or related and relevant experience in the management of diverse international assignments, or human resources experience where responsibilities included the orientation of employees for foreign assignment, or equivalent.  3 years relevant teaching experience or equivalent.  Experience in the competency-based approach to teaching and learning is an asset.Application deadline:   December 7, 2016Interested candidates are asked to send a CV and cover letter to Sandra Rozansky <sandra.rozansky@concordia.ca>Course Description: 
This course examines the theory and practical application of personnel management. Topics to be discussed include recruitment, staff selection, orientation and training, wage and salary administration, and benefits management.Schedules: 
(40 hours) MoTuWeThFr  9:30-12:00  (16-Jan to 06-Feb)Key responsibilities include preparation of the course according to a course plan provided, delivery of the course, and evaluation of student performance.Qualifications:
Ideal candidates are individuals who are active practitioners in the field and who keep up with the latest trends and methodologies. We are looking for instructors who want to share their knowledge, including the concepts and the practical application of those concepts.Qualified candidates would have an MBA or MSc (Administration) or equivalent, as well as 5 years of relevant human resource managerial experience at a medium or large sized organization, or equivalent.  3 years relevant teaching experience or equivalent. Experience in the competency-based approach to teaching and learning is an asset.Application deadline:   December 7, 2016Interested candidates are asked to send a CV and cover letter to Sandra Rozansky <sandra.rozansky@concordia.ca>Course Description: 
This course focuses on methods of locating qualified candidates, employing appropriate recruitment channels, and improving the overall efficacy of the recruitment process. Competencies are built by examining such aspects as an aging workforce, increased competition for available labour, dynamic environmental conditions and the demand for qualified candidates exceeding supply. Further understanding is developed because the selection of an inappropriate candidate to fill a position is both a costly and time-consuming proposition.Schedules: 
(40 hours) MoTuWeThFr  09:30-12:00  (07-Feb to 02-Mar)Key responsibilities include preparation of the course according to a course plan provided, delivery of the course, and evaluation of student performance.Qualifications:
Ideal candidates are individuals who are active practitioners in the field and who keep up with the latest trends and methodologies. We are looking for instructors who want to share their knowledge, including the concepts and the practical application of those concepts.Qualified candidates would have an MBA or MSc (Administration) or equivalent, as well as 5 years of relevant human resource managerial experience at a medium or large sized organization, where professional responsibilities included the recruitment, qualification, and selection of candidates, or equivalent.   3 years relevant teaching experience or equivalent. Experience in the competency-based approach to teaching and learning is an asset.Application deadline:   December 7, 2016Interested candidates are asked to send a CV and cover letter to Sandra Rozansky <sandra.rozansky@concordia.ca>Course Description: 
This course focuses on developing competence in both the designing and building of strategic compensation plans that are tailored to meet the specific challenges faced by individual organizations. Issues such as an aging workforce, the rising costs of labour, competition for talented workers, and legislation related to wage and salary levels are examined within the context of effective compensation plans.Schedules: 
(40 hours) MoTuWeThFr  09:30-12:00  (03-Mar to 24-Mar)Key responsibilities include preparation of the course according to a course plan provided, delivery of the course, and evaluation of student performance.Qualifications:
Ideal candidates are individuals who are active practitioners in the field and who keep up with the latest trends and methodologies. We are looking for instructors who want to share their knowledge, including the concepts and the practical application of those concepts.Qualified candidates would have an MBA or MSc (Administration) or equivalent, as well as 5 years of relevant human resource managerial experience at a medium or large sized organization, where professional responsibilities included the planning, design, and/or management of compensation program or equivalent.  3 years relevant teaching experience or equivalent. Experience in the competency-based approach to teaching and learning is an asset.Application deadline:   December 7, 2016Interested candidates are asked to send a CV and cover letter to Sandra Rozansky <sandra.rozansky@concordia.ca>Course Description: 
This course develops the ability to create a research design, develop an effective questionnaire or sampling instrument, and determine the appropriate sampling technique for different research scenarios. The course demonstrates that research must be performed to ascertain the value, accessibility, and general merits of the market(s) contemplated.Schedules: 
(40 hours) TuTh 18:00-20:00  (17-Jan-2017 to 23-Mar)Key responsibilities include preparation of the course according to a course plan provided, delivery of the course, and evaluation of student performance.Qualifications:
Ideal candidates are individuals who are active practitioners in the field and who keep up with the latest trends and methodologies. We are looking for instructors who want to share their knowledge, including the concepts and the practical application of those concepts.Qualified candidates would have an MBA or MSc (Administration) or equivalent, as well as 5 years of professional marketing experience where candidate’s professional responsibilities have included the research of consumer and/or business and/or institutional markets, or equivalent.  3 years relevant teaching experience or equivalent. Experience in the competency-based approach to teaching and learning is an asset.Application deadline:   December 7, 2016Interested candidates are asked to send a CV and cover letter to Sandra Rozansky <sandra.rozansky@concordia.ca>Course Description: 
The first part of the course will focus on identifying the special personal skills and knowledge expected to be the driving force in enterprising managers. This will be identified through a cross-disciplinary approach, blending theory from the fields of entrepreneurship and business management. SMEs, the traditional spawning grounds of enterprise initiative, will be examined on the basis of the appropriate organizational structure for enterprise development. The second part of the course deals with crafting a business plan and is intended to encapsulate the overall beliefs and recommendations of the enterprising manager. The course also examines how people and companies negotiate and can analyze and improve their negotiating techniques and positions.Schedule: 
(40 hours)   Wednesdays 13:00-17:00  (29-Mar to 31-May)Key responsibilities include preparation of the course according to a course plan provided, delivery of the course, and evaluation of student performance.Qualifications:
Ideal candidates are individuals who are active practitioners in the field and who keep up with the latest trends and methodologies. We are looking for instructors who want to share their knowledge, including the concepts and the practical application of those concepts. Our students are young adults from France on an exchange program in Montreal.Qualified candidates would have an MBA or MSc (Administration) or equivalent, as well as 5 years of professional and current experience related directly to the start-up and active management of a business or businesses OR relevant work experience and 3 years relevant teaching experience or equivalent. Experience in the competency-based approach to teaching and learning is an asset.  Application deadline:   January 31, 2017Interested candidates are asked to send a CV and cover letter to Sandra Rozansky <sandra.rozansky@concordia.ca> Course description: 
This course examines the history of operating systems development together with the use of the operating system as a resource manager. Aspects related to the technical development of operating systems will be covered, as will the introduction of distributed, network and embedded operating systems. Topics examined include: processes, threads and concurrency, scheduling, synchronization and communication, deadlocks, memory hierarchy, memory management including virtual memory, file systems and secondary storage organization, device independence, peripherals, I/O and device drivers, user interface, introduction to distributed and network operating systems and special features of embedded operating systems.Schedules: 
(40 hours)   Tuesdays 13:00-17:00  (28-Mar to 30-May)

Key responsibilities include preparation of the course according to a course plan provided, delivery of the course, and evaluation of student performance.Qualifications:
Ideal candidates are individuals who are active practitioners in the field and who keep up with the latest trends and methodologies. We are looking for instructors who want to share their knowledge, including the concepts and the practical application of those concepts. Our students are young adults from France on an exchange program in Montreal.Qualified candidates would have a Bachelor’s Degree in Computer Science, or equivalent, as well as 5 years relevant work experience and, 3 years relevant teaching experience or equivalent.  Application deadline:   January 31, 2016Interested candidates are asked to send a CV and cover letter to Sandra Rozansky <sandra.rozansky@concordia.ca>Course Description: 
This course explores an object-oriented approach to design and efficient implementation algorithms that use appropriate data structures. Topics covered include modelling structure, class and object diagrams, relationships, modelling behaviour, use case diagrams, interaction diagrams, activity diagrams, state diagrams, techniques for testing OO designs, introduction to OO methodologies and design patterns and implementing OO designs in C++.Schedules: 
Section A:   (40 hours)   Tu, Th, Fr 09:00-12:00  (28-Mar to 27-Apr) 
Section B:   (40 hours)   We 09:00-12:00 & Th, Fr 13:00-16:00  (29-Mar to 27-Apr)Key responsibilities include preparation of the course according to a course plan provided, delivery of the course, and evaluation of student performance.Qualifications:
Ideal candidates are individuals who are active practitioners in the field and who keep up with the latest trends and methodologies. We are looking for instructors who want to share their knowledge, including the concepts and the practical application of those concepts. Our students are young adults from France on an exchange program in Montreal.Qualified candidates would have a Bachelor’s Degree in Computer Science, or equivalent, as well as 5 years relevant work experience and, 3 years relevant teaching experience or equivalent.  Application deadline:   January 31, 2017Interested candidates are asked to send a CV and cover letter to Sandra Rozansky <sandra.rozansky@concordia.ca>Course Description: 
This course is an introduction to web programming with PHP and the best approaches to plan and test programs for the web. The course will include creating meaningful connections to simple databases. At the end of the course you will be able to effectively design, implement and test web applications with simple database connectivity.Schedules: 

Section A:   (40 hours)   Tu, Th, Fr   09:00-12:00  (02-May to 30-May)
Section B:   (40 hours)   We 09:00-12:00 & Th, Fr 13:00-16:00  (03-May to 31-May)Key responsibilities include preparation of the course according to a course plan provided, delivery of the course, and evaluation of student performance.Qualifications:
Ideal candidates are individuals who are active practitioners in the field and who keep up with the latest trends and methodologies. We are looking for instructors who want to share their knowledge, including the concepts and the practical application of those concepts. Our students are young adults from France on an exchange program in Montreal.Qualified candidates would have a Bachelor’s Degree in Computer Science, or equivalent, as well as 5 years relevant work experience and, 3 years relevant teaching experience or equivalent.  Application deadline:   January 31, 2017Interested candidates are asked to send a CV and cover letter to Sandra Rozansky <sandra.rozansky@concordia.ca>Interested in teaching at the Centre for Continuing Education?If you wish to submit your CV for other teaching possibilities at the Centre, 
please send a letter of introduction along with your CV to CCE.Director@concordia.ca.  
Your CV will be retained for a period of two years.  Thank you!You may also wish to consult other job opportunities at Concordia University.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityTeaching opportunitiesContinuing Education
            
                Continuing EducationWinter 2017 -- Business Essential CEBU1150 (40 hour contract) 
                
            
                
					
                    Winter 2017 -- Cross-Cultural Management - CEBU1160 (40 hour contract) 
                
            
                
					
                    Winter 2017 -- Human Resources Essentials - CEHR1150 (40 hour contract) 
                
            
                
					
                    Winter 2017 -- Recruitment and Selection - CEHR1250 (40 hour contract) 
                
            
                
					
                    Winter 2017 -- Remuneration and Benefits - CEHR1350 (40 hour contract) 
                
            
                
					
                    Winter 2017 -- Marketing Research - CEMK1250 (40 hour contract) 
                
            
                
					
                    Spring 2017 -- Entrepreneurship and Negotiation (40 hour contract)
                
            
                
					
                    Spring 2017 -- Operating Systems Overview (40 hour contract)
                
            
                
					
                    Spring 2017 -- Object-Oriented Methods with UML (40 hour contracts) 
                
            
                
					
                    Spring 2017 -- Web Programming with PHP (40 hour contracts)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/about/jobs.htmlConcordia University's Faculty of Fine Arts is unique in Canada. We offer, in a single faculty, an unparalleled range of fine arts programs across nine departments and four research institutes.More than 3,700 students are enrolled in 58 undergraduate and graduate programs, benefiting from the Faculty's state-of-the-art facilities, vibrant cross-disciplinary environment and extensive partnerships in Montreal's rich cultural community.Our acclaimed faculty, numbering 117 full-time professors and a significant number of part-time professors, are artists and scholars dedicated to creative work and research. Their passion for teaching and research is the cornerstone of our reputation.
        Poste de professeur menant à la permanence – Design en communication visuelle
    
        Tenure-Track Faculty Position in Visual Communication Design
    There are no open positions at this time. Please visit us again.For staff positions, please visit Human Resources.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityJob opportunitiesFaculty of Fine Arts
            
                Faculty of Fine Arts
            Faculty positionsTeaching and research assistantshipsOther employment opportunitiesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/art-history/about/jobs.htmlThere are no positions open in the Department of Art History at this time. Please see faculty position openings on the Faculty of Fine Arts website.© Concordia UniversityAbout
Programs
Research & creation
Student life
News & eventsConcordia UniversityJob opportunitiesDepartment of Art History
            
                Department of Art HistoryConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/applied-human-sciences/about/jobs.htmlAvailable part-time faculty positions are postedIf these dates fall on a weekend, the positions will be posted on the following Monday.Please see above for the posting dates.Postings for teaching positions available for part-time faculty can be viewed on the Faculty Resource Information System (FRIS).  All available teaching positions across the university are on FRIS. Hard copies of postings can be viewed in the department as well.  Login into FRIS with your netname and password.Users who do not have a netname may request a temporary account from the log-on page by selecting “ Click here if you don't know/have Netname". Follow the instructions.Step by step instructions for part-time faculty members  In order to apply, you must still complete a HARD COPY of the Concordia University Regular Part-Time Teaching Application FormInclude with your application a current CV, or ensure that your academic and profession service dossier on file with the department is up-to-date.  There is also an option on FRIS to apply on-line.  Although at the moment you must supply a hard copy of the application form. If this is your first time teaching a specific course, please provide documentation about your qualifications and suitability to teach the course or highlight information in your dossier on file with the department.Applications must be submitted to:AHSC Department Chair
c/o Ann Marie Blinkhorn, Department Administrator
Concordia University
Department of Applied Human Sciences
1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd West (Office L-VE-223.03)
Montreal, QC, H3G 1M8orhand-deliver to the Loyola Campus7141 Sherbrooke St. West
Office VE-223.03Applications MUST be received no later than 5:00 pm on the application due date. The CUPFA Collective Agreement specifies that a hard copy of your application MUST be received in the department by the deadline.NOTE: "Only applicants who are defined as Canadian per the definition below at the time of application for a part-time contract shall be given consideration by the PTHC. 'Canadian' means a person who is a citizen of Canada, or who on the date of application for a part-time contract at Concordia University is a permanent resident, or holds a ministerial permit as a consequence of being a refugee or being prohibited from applying for a permanent resident status." [Article 10.01a of the CUPFA Collective Agreement]Research assistant positions will be posted here as they become available.Research Assistant application form {pdf 81KB}Research Assistant application form {word}You can also check the openings in the Faculty of Arts and Science or the staff positions from the university.© Concordia UniversityDepartment of Applied Human Sciences
Office L-VE-223
 1455 de Maisoneuve Blvd. West
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 1M8
7141 Sherbrooke St. West,
Office VE-223
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 2E9

See building mapConcordia UniversityJob opportunitiesDepartment of Applied Human Sciences
            
                Department of Applied Human Sciences
            Next posting for Part-time Faculty:Please read this important information regarding the application procedures:Full time Faculty positionsPart-time Faculty positionsResearch Assistant PositionsUniversity Staff OpportunitiesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424