http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/polisci/programs/graduate/ma-political-science.htmlPolitics is everywhere. Political thought plays a key role in shaping the world we live in, be it through resource planning, economic structures, public policies, international relations or issues relating to health and the environment. The MA in Political Science program offers you the opportunity to address some of the most pressing and difficult challenges facing contemporary politics. Through each area of specialization, you will be encouraged to think about politics and the relations among individuals and political communities from an analytical and critical perspective, including a diversity of epistemological, ontological and methodological viewpoints. Engage in sustained and original research which is relevant for professional development within academia, public administration, private industry and NGOs.  You will benefit from faculty-led  inter-institutional and university-wide research centers and research networks, such as the:Our graduate students focus on many established and emerging subjects, including:The MA in Political Science is a 45 credits program, consisting of 6 seminars (18 credits), the thesis proposal (3 credits) and a thesis (24 credits). Students may write a thesis in the following subfields: Public Policy and Administration, Canadian and Québec Politics, International Politics, Comparative Politics, and Political Theory.  The subfield in which a student intends to write a thesis determines the subfield in which concentration courses will be taken.The table below summarizes the distribution of credits:An undergraduate honours degree or the equivalent is required with a minimum GPA of 3.30. Students who do not have the necessary background in political science, as well as in the concentration which they have chosen, may be required to take specific undergraduate courses in addition to the regular program. In certain cases, applicants may be required to complete a qualifying program in order to be eligible for admission to the graduate program. Students who were educated outside Canada and whose mother tongue is neither English nor French will be required to successfully complete TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language) or the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) exam before being admitted.Your completed application will include:Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures. Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Students must take two core courses for a total of 6 credits:The subfield core seminars survey of seminar works, cutting edge research, and the most important approaches to the study of a particular subfield.POLI 601 Research Design explores differing research philosophies, the principles of research design and research strategies. It provides guidance on writing research proposals.POLI 644 Research Methods introduces students to the logic and methodology of Political Science research and public policy analysis, focusing on quantitative analysis.Students must take two courses in their subfield of specialization (6 credits) and two additional courses, which may be selected from any of the 600-level courses in political science, or from cognate courses offered in related disciplines. For cognate courses, approval of the Director is required. In some cases approval for registration in cognate courses must be obtained from the department involved.Examples of recent concentration and elective coursesPOLI 694. This course is a directed study involving a comprehensive understanding of the literature in the area of research directly relevant to the thesis topic under the direction of a faculty supervisor. The written assignments involve a comprehensive literature review, annotated bibliography and research design that culminate in a thesis proposal presented in an oral defence before the thesis supervisor and two faculty members in the graduate program (3 credits).POLI 696. Students are required to demonstrate their ability to carry out original, independent research. The thesis, which is researched and written under the direction of a supervisor and thesis committee, is defended before the student’s thesis committee (24 credits).Consideration for Entrance Awards is automatically part of the admissions process for all new students.  Awards may be merit or need based.  Examples include:We also encourage students seeking admission to our program to apply for funding from external sources in the final year of their undergraduate studies (e.g. FRQSC, SSHRC).Research assistant positions also exist for funded research.  Individual faculty members determine if work opportunities are available based on their own research budgets.Please also consult Concordia’s graduate funding page and Financial Aid and Awards.Learn more about graduate faculty research interests. © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityPolitical Science (MA)Department of Political Science
            
                Department of Political Science
            Key resourcesDegree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application process
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Funding
                
            
                
					
                    ResearchWhy pursue an MA in Political Science?Program detailsMaster of Arts (MA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Core coursesConcentration and elective coursesThesis proposalMaster’s thesis