http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/art-education/programs/ma.htmlThe MA in Art Education helps students develop a critical understanding of the theories, approaches and practices that influence the teaching of visual arts. Award-winning faculty are leading experts in their fields, contributing to a supportive environment for the development and pursuit of innovative ideas and directions.

The art educator is both artist and teacher. Consequently, the program takes a holistic approach to the study of art education.Students are encouraged to look at their own unique life experiences to help them develop their own philosophy of teaching and art education. They are encouraged to connect their studio practice with pedagogical theory, conceptual understanding and critical reflection. They develop a program of study best suited to their individual academic, research and professional goals. The program is highly student-centered: it’s small enough that students enjoy individual attention but large enough to sustain an amazing community of graduate students from around the world. Students are further supported in their development/goals with many opportunities for paid teaching assistantships and the possibility of travel, thanks to a partnership with another university.Upon admission, students choose between a thesis option – which can centre on art-making, teaching or research - and a course work option. Both options are grounded in experimentation, collaboration and diversity, and provide excellent preparation for careers in the visual arts and art teaching.MA in Art Education with Thesis: for students seeking indepth research expertise who wish to pursue Doctoral studies and/or who seek research-oriented professional positions.MA in Art Education with Courses: for students seeking professional development rather than research training.Admission Requirements. A Bachelor of Fine Arts or a Bachelor of Arts with specialization in art education or its equivalent is required. An overall grade average of B or better is expected. In addition, the applicant is expected to have had experience in the teaching of art or art-related subjects.See how to applyPriority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Consult the graduate calendar for a complete list of current courses.Students applying to the program need to download, print and submit the following forms with their application.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityMA in Art EducationDepartment of Art Education
            
                Department of Art Education
            Key resourcesJoin the conversationProgram options & degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Assistantships and InternshipsWhy pursue a master's in art education?Program DetailsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Option AOption BApplication processSample classes