http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/mathematics-statistics.htmlMathematics is a language that answers real-world questions in science and engineering. Statistics is the science of information. Studying them together gives you a set of tools which will allow you to explore the meaning behind the numbers in a range of practical applications.This program is designed for students who wish to enter the job market right after graduation. As a Mathematics and Statistics student, you’ll uncover the mathematical structure of random systems such as the economy and the stock market, health and survival, and weather forecasting.  You will build a solid foundation in linear algebra, calculus, probability and number theory, and learn to use professional software tools for mathematics and data analysis applications.If you choose the Joint Major with Computer Applications, you’ll complement your mathematics knowledge with computer science topics such as modelling and symbolic computation. It’s also common for Mathematics and Statistics students to add a minor in a different field of their choice.After you graduate with a Major in Mathematics and Statistics, you will have the knowledge and skills required to apply mathematics and statistics in professional careers in business, industry or government agencies.A Bachelor of Arts or Science degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background.Concentrations:About the MajorThe Major in Mathematics & Statistics is a 42-credit program with a common core of 36 credits. It is aimed at students who would like to have a good background in the mathematical sciences, but whose goals are to enter the job market upon graduation, rather than to pursue graduate studies. The focus of the Major is on the applicable nature of the mathematical sciences as tools for solving, and as ways of thinking about, a wide range of problems. Certain selected topics will be covered in each course accompanied by the use of appropriate software applications.
See full degree requirements in the Undergraduate CalendarMinimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.Minimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
 Consult the undergraduate calendar for a complete list of current courses.Mathematics and Statistics alumni have established careers in areas such as:A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityMathematics and Statistics (BA, BSc)Related programsKey resourcesJoin the ConversationDegree options
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements — BSc
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements — BA & Minor
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Sample classes
                
            
                
					
                    After your degreeWhy study Mathematics and Statistics?Program DetailsUnited States  studentsBachelor of Arts (BA), Bachelor of Science (BSc)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Cegep StudentsMinimum Cut-off AveragesCegep StudentsMinimum Cut-off Averages