http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/coms/programs/media-studies-ma.htmlLocated within the renowned Department of Communication Studies of Concordia University, the MA in Media Studies has been one of North America’s finest Masters programs in the field for over thirty years. We offer a unique and challenging course of study, providing students with an interdisciplinary formation commencing with core training in communication theory and media research methods. Students also take our media studies seminar, which provides a forum for discussion and skills training for full scholarly and professional engagement with the field of media studies. From there our students move on to studies and research in such areas as media history, race and ethnicity, political economy, community activism, video games, cultural policy, feminist media, technology, audience practices, alternative media, film and television, popular and visual culture, and development.With twenty-one tenured and tenure-track faculty in Communication Studies, we take pride in our close and individualized mentorship of our students. Our research culture is exceptionally active, and our faculty are engaged in many major research initiatives – including the Mobile Media Lab, Feminist Media Studies Lab, Technology-Art-Games (TAG), Advanced Research Team in History and Epistemology of Moving Image Studies (ARTHEMIS), Media History Research Centre (MHRC), and Adventures in Research Creation (ARC). These and other cutting-edge faculty research projects create a vibrant intellectual, creative, and collegial environment, where conferences, talks, screenings, performances, and events are plentiful. You will be swept into this excitement, and for some there will be opportunities to act as research assistants for our faculty members. I invite you to take a look at our faculty webpages for an idea of the rich diversity of innovative and award-winning research and professional achievement housed within our department.We measure the success of our program by the demonstrated contributions and impact of our graduates. Many of our alumni become professionals in media and cultural industries, working in a variety of capacities in digital media, film, television, gaming, radio and the arts. And many continue on to doctoral programs in Canada and abroad. Take a look at the theses and projects undertaken over the last few years to see the possibilities that a MA in Media Studies can offer you.If you are interested in developing expertise in the contemporary issues, history, and theories about our media culture, and in studying with some of the very best international scholars in their chosen research domains, we encourage you to take a close look at our MA in Media Studies. We offer four options for both full- and part-time studies: a thesis option that allows students to conduct a sustained research program; an innovative research-creation option designed for media-makers to conduct research primarily via media production; a major research paper option that includes additional course work; and a course-based option for those who wish to carry out a program comprised solely of course work.Our students are highly motivated, creative, have excelled in their undergraduate studies, and are able to articulate a clear program of work and research interests. If this sounds like you, then you should consider our MA in Media Studies. Please feel free to contact us with any questions you might have.Sincerely,Dr. Peter C. van Wyck
Professor and Graduate Program Director, MA in Media StudiesPlease contact the Graduate Programs AssistantMircea Mandache © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityMedia Studies (MA)Department of Communication Studies
            
                Department of Communication StudiesQuestions?Current MA CoursesA Word from the DirectorConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424