http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/research/perform/research/members.htmlThe PERFORM Centre is home to 44 researcher members.  Each member brings a unique expertise from a variety of areas, ranging from the fundamental sciences to social sciences, all united by the desire to advance knowledge on lifestyle strategies to better manage and prevent chronic diseases. Our scientific team cultivates interdisciplinary and collaborative research that creates links between exercise, nutrition, sleep, physical activity and lifestyle in order to improve the health of the entire populationClick the name of the research member below for more information about research at PERFORM.

Habib Benali – Interim Scientific DirectorThe research interest of Prof. Benali is motivated by innovative and valid methodological approaches to studying normal aging and pathological processes in the context of a variety of neurological conditions representing critical public health issues. It develops an integrated biomedical approach, ranging from the basic mathematical modelling of the brain's anatomo-functional circuits and their normal and pathological dynamics to the physiological model of brain activity observed by neuroimaging tools allowing us to translate models from normal aging to clinical populations.
Affiliation: Concordia University
 Louis Bherer – Associate Scientific DirectorNormal aging is often accompanied by declines in brain function that can harm the quality of life of seniors. However, not all people are affected in the same way and not all brain functions decline at the same speed. Louis Bherer and his team want to improve understanding of why and how intellectual stimulation and physical activity can help seniors maintain better brain functioning. He's also exploring whether these benefits are long lasting and are similar for seniors of all ages, sexes and health conditions.Affiliation: Concordia University
Departmental Page | Publications | Explore Concordia Profile Jean-Paul Soucy - Associate Director, BioimagingAffiliation: McGill University
Departmental Page
Tracie BarnettAffiliation: Concordia University 
Departmental Page | Publications
Linda BooijNumerous studies have shown that adverse exposures in utero or in the first years of life (e.g., emotional or physical abuse, harsh parenting) can lead to a variety of mental health difficulties later on.The overarching theme of my research program is to study the underlying brain and molecular mechanisms through which this occurs. Studies are conducted in clinical and non-clinical populations and include human PET and (f)MRI imaging, epigenetics (DNA methylation) and/or cognitive-behavioural assessments. Affiliation: Concordia University
Faculty profile | CHUSJ research profile
Richard CourtemancheMy overall theme is how different brain areas organize to control behavior. As a neurophysiologist, I study neural activity mostly in the cerebellum and basal ganglia, and specifically how oscillatory activity and synchronization over multiple areas affect movement. I am interested in static behavior, like posture, but also patterns of movements, such as rhythmic movements.

Affiliation: Concordia University
Departmental Page | Publications | Explore Concordia Page
 Sandra CurtisViolence against women is one of the most pressing healthcare issues facing women in Canada, involving complex immediate and long-term physical and psychosocial dimensions. The focus of Dr. Curtis’ research is on examining dimensions influencing the treatment efficacy of music therapy for women and girl survivors of violence. It is also on increasing understanding of the role of pop culture in perpetuating as well as in challenging sociopolitical underpinnings of this violence.Affiliation: Concordia University
Departmental Page | Explore Concordia Page
Thien Thanh Dang VuThe research interests of Dr Dang-Vu are focused on the interface between neuroimaging, sleep, and neurology, in order to investigate the neural correlates of spontaneous brain activity, the role of sleep in brain plasticity, the pathophysiology of sleep disorders, and the clinical biomarkers of neurological disease progression. Some of his current projects explore the role of sleep oscillations in memory processing, cognitive health and recovery after brain lesion, the brain mechanisms of insomnia and hypersomnia, and the treatment interventions for insomnia. 

Affiliation: Concordia University
Departmental Page | Publications | Explore Concordia Page
Peter DarlingtonOver the years, I have studied the immunology of T cells in many different contexts including transplantation, diabetes and most recently, multiple sclerosis. T cells play a major role in the adaptive immune response, they are essential in providing immunological memory and coordinating host defense against pathogens. However, when T cells malfunction, they can cause autoimmunity, a condition where they attack self-tissue (such as the brain, in multiple sclerosis), or can become cancerous, as in the case of T cell leukemia. Like other cells and tissues, T cells are under the influence of endocrine and neuro-endocrine systems. My research concerns the underlying mechanisms by which these endocrine systems impact T cell biology. The relevance is to further understand how exercise may impact the immune system, and if it can be beneficial for modulating T cell responses in autoimmunity or cancer.

Affiliation: Concordia University
Departmental Page | Publications | Explore Concordia Page Kaberi DasguptaAffiliation: McGill University
Departmental Page | Publications Richard DeMontDr. DeMont is Director of the Athletic Therapy Research Laboratory. His focus of research to be on the neuromuscular system as it relates to injury, prevention, and rehabilitation. Specifically, the role of pre-activation as a form of dynamic joint stability is examined. An additional theme examining effects of cognitive distraction on neuromuscular control is continuing in collaboration with Department of Psychology (Karen Li and Virginia Penhune). Additionally, collaboration with Mechanical Engineering (Subhash Rakheja) studying the musculoskeletal loading of seated occupational drivers exposed to whole body vibration; vibration control and optimal postural support condition is underway

Affiliation: Concordia University
Departmental Page | Publications | Explore Concordia Profile Geoff DoverMy research interests include implementing a novel biopsychosocial model that considers the potentially interactive roles played by psychological and functional risk factors in the development of chronic shoulder pain. Chronic pain is a prevalent, disabling, and costly problem for our society. Clinical outcomes following treatment of shoulder disorders are often unfavorable and, as a result, shoulder pain represents a significant source of chronic disability. My research attempts to determine the risk factors that lead to increased pain perception and decreased function in a variety of populations.Affiliation: Concordia University
Departmental Page | Publications | Explore Concordia Page Ann EnglishWe examine chemical reactions that control redox signaling in cells. These are mainly metal-catalyzed and of critical importance in oxygen metabolism and in oxidative stress, a major contributing factor in aging and in age-related diseases. We are currently examining, using mass spectrometry and molecular genetics, the coordination of antioxidant defence metalloenzymes in yeast as they are virtually conserved throughout eukaryotes including humans. Affiliation: Concordia University
Faculty profile | CBAMS | CERMM | http://www.proteo.ca
 Benjamin EppingerThe primary goal of my research is to gain a better understanding of the cognitive and neural mechanisms underlying changes in learning and decision-making across the human lifespan. To address this question I use a multi-methodological approach that combines experimental paradigms, computational modeling and neuroimaging (EEG, fMRI).Affiliation: Concordia University
Departmental Page | Explore Concordia Page 
Tiago H. FalkMy research interests are in the development of innovative signal processing tools with applications across diverse, interdisciplinary topics. More relevant to the PERFORM Centre are applications developed for automated medical diagnosis and human performance analyses. Within these two topics, my recent work has focused on (1) the development of multimodal (e.g., EEG and NIRS) signal processing techniques for automated Alzheimer's disease diagnosis and severity monitoring, (2) remote audio-visual analytics for automated depression level classification, (3) biosignal artefact removal and signal enhancement for more accurate athlete performance assessment and context awareness, and (4) signal processing tools that enable aging-in-place.INRS Page | MuSAE Lab | Publications

 Caroline FitzpatrickCaroline Fitzpatrick’s work focuses mainly on the origins of childhood education and health inequalities with the ultimate goal of advising public health initiatives and social policies aimed at improving child physical and mental health.An important objective of her work, which draws on a developmental psychopathology approach, is to identify modifiable risk factors, such as cognitive control, that can be targeted in early childhood to positively shape later well-being and health-related behavior.Affiliation: Sainte-Anne University

 Claudine GauthierAffiliation: Concordia University
Departmental Page Tristan Glatard My research program aims at designing new concepts and algorithms to automate Big Data analyses, focusing on the following research questions: (1) what are the key abstractions required to enable interoperability between Big Data platforms? (2) how can we ensure that Big Data analyses are reproducible across execution environments and over time? (3) how do Big Data infrastructures perform for scientific applications and how can we further improve them? The potential applications of this research span the whole spectrum of disciplines engaged in data science. I focus particularly on neurosciences.Affiliation: Concordia University
Explore Concordia Page | ENCS Jean-Philippe Gouin My research program investigates the impact of stress on immune functioning, with a particular emphasis on inflammatory processes. The biological embedding of early experiences as well as the impact of cumulative or chronic exposure to social and environmental stressors over the life course are evaluated.Work in my laboratory can broadly be divided in three inter-related areas: 
1) how stress-related alterations in autonomic, neuroendocrine, and immune responses promote greater production of circulating inflammatory markers. 
2) how depression, worry, rumination, and sleep disturbances can amplify stress-induced immune dysregulation. 
3) how the peptides oxytocin and vasopressin impact interpersonal and physiological processes that can buffer the deleterious impact of stress.

Affiliation: Concordia University
Departmental Page | Publications | Explore Concordia Page
Christophe GrovaAffiliation: Concordia University
Departmental Page | McGill University Page | MultiFunkIm Lab Lisa KakinamiAffiliation: Concordia University
Departmental Page
 Najmeh Khalili-MahaniPhysical and mental health depend on myriad cascade interactions between our body and the environment in which we live. Similar to water and nutrition, the flow of information, and the manners in which we process and perceive that, can impact our mental and physical health. The accelerated growth of communication technologies, such as smart phones, tablets and social networks, in the past decade challenge us to assess the positive and negative impact of these technologies across populations. At PERFORM, I investigate the relation between screen usage and autonomic and central nervous system function. This research is informed by my neuroimaging work on the impact of stress and psychoactive drugs on physiological and neurological responses in brain networks that are critical for learning and adaptation.Affiliation: Concordia University Robert Kilgour Dr. Kilgour's research interests fall under a single broad category of supportive care and rehabilitation in cancer. The various lines of research that are currently being followed include: 1. Assessment and evaluation of the functional status in advanced cancer patients; 2. Identifying the predictive / prognostic indices that affect clinical outcomes in advanced cancer patients; 3. Assessment and evaluation of rehabilitation and supportive care programs for advanced cancer patients with cachexia, and 4. Cancer-related fatigue and its impact on the neuromuscular system.

Affiliation: Concordia University
Departmental Page | Publications | Explore Concordia Page Jordan LeBel Dr. LeBel's  research on comfort foods, and particularly chocolate, has been featured extensively in both broadcast and print media around the world. He is a regular commentator on food and restaurant marketing issues in the local and national media. Dr. LeBel actively supervises graduate students at the MSc and PhD levels. He is a founding member of the Concordia Food Culture Research Group and he is a member of the McGill World Platform for Health and Economic Convergence. He regularly consults for large and small organizations in the food, foodservice, and retail industries. He has given keynote addresses to a variety of organizations such as the Ordre professionnel des diététistes du Québec, the Canadian Foodservice Professional Association, and many others.
Affiliation: Concordia University
Departmental Page | Publications | Explore Concordia Page Gabriel LeonardAffiliation: McGill University
Departmental Page Karen Li I am interested in studying situations in which multiple tasks are either carried out in sequential order, or are performed concurrently. A portion of my current work investigates the coordination of cognitive and motor tasks in old age (e.g., walking, balance, finger sequencing, with a concurrent cognitive load). An important theme in my research is to understand the adaptive strategies that older adults develop in response to declines in cognitive and sensorimotor abilities. I am a member and Associate Director of the Centre for Research in Human Development (CRDH), which is devoted to multidisciplinary approaches to the study of development across all life periods. Graduate students working with me participate in regular workshops and seminars offered by the Centre.

Affiliation: Concordia University
Departmental Page | Publications | Explore Concordia Page

Patrik Marier Dr. Patrik Marier holds a Tier-II Canada Research Chair (CRC) in Comparative Public Policy. His current research analyzes the impact of aging populations on a number of public policy fields including pensions, health care, and labour policy across comparative cases. He is currently completing a book length manuscript on how Canadian provinces are preparing themselves to face the consequences of an aging population. Dr. Marier has also written numerous publications on the politics of pension reforms in industrialized countries.

Affiliation: Concordia University
Departmental Page | Centre for Research and Expertise in Social Gerontology | Publications | Explore Conordia Page
Paul MartineauAffiliation: McGill University 
Departmental Page | Publications Jennifer McGrathDr. Jennifer McGrath is an Associate Professor at Concordia University and the inaugural PERFORM Chair in Childhood Preventive Health and Data Science. Her innovative, interdisciplinary approach to untangling social determinants of child health inequalities has led to new discoveries about the pathophysiology of cardiovascular disease precursors, and their socioeconomic gradient, during childhood and adolescence.Her research spans pathways-to-policy, as she investigates underlying cardiometabolic disease mechanisms to population-based public policy strategies aimed at promoting child health equity. Dr. McGrath has made compelling insights into pediatric sleep; autonomic and endocrine dysregulation; and, secondhand smoke and nicotine-dependence. She has also pioneered rigorous pediatric ambulatory measurement standards and advocates for reproducibility of science through open-source data science methods.Dr. McGrath’s research has been continuously funded by CIHR since 2005, with over $11.3M in total funding. She has held numerous awards in recognition for her work and serves as a member of the CIHR University Delegate Executive Committee and Chair of the Foundation and Project Scheme CIHR Review Committees.Affiliation: Concordia Universitypphp lab   Anil Nigam Affiliation: Centre EpicDepartmental Page | Publications
 Matthew ParrottThere is compelling evidence that nutrition influences age-related cognitive decline and dementia risk. However, this relationship probably depends on the specific combination of foods in your diet, genetics, and other lifestyle factors. My primary research goals are to:
(A) Identify eating patterns that are positively and negatively associated with cognitive function in older adults.
(B) Determine underlying biological mechanisms.
(C) Understand how the diet-cognition relationship is weakened or enhanced by personal factors like genetics (e.g. APOE   genotype) or other lifestyle factors (e.g. mental stimulation, physical activity).Affiliation: Concordia University
 David J. PearsallMy research examines: (1) the biomechanics of human movement including tasks from walking and running on irregular terrains; mechanisms leading to slip, trip and fall events; and locomotion on ice, and (2) the impact performance factors of sport helmets.Affiliation: McGill UniversityDepartmental page Virginia Penhune The work in our laboratory is focused on understanding the plastic changes that occur in the human brain during motor learning and performance.  We explore the way children and adults learn motor skills and how musical training affects the ability to learn.  The lab also studies changes in motor skills that occur as adults age.  The techniques used include behavioral studies as well as neuroimaging studies of brain structure and function (functional magnetic resonance imaging or fMRI and positron emission tomography or PET).  The lab also uses 3D motion capture to study changes in movement kinematics during learning.  An exciting new line of research examines behavioral and neuronal changes during learning of abstract rules.Affiliation: Concordia University
Departmental Page | Publications | Explore Concordia Page Veronique Pépin My main research interests are in the areas of clinical exercise testing and therapeutic exercise training in individuals with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). My current work focuses on comparing the effects of different exercise-training protocols on several health parameters, such as exercise tolerance, cognitive function, psychological status, and quality of life, in COPD patients. I am also interested in the clinical significance of diurnal variability as well as in the potential role of pulmonary rehabilitation as an aid to smoking cessation in COPD patients. I also collaborate on projects investigating the benefits of aerobic exercise training for adults with other clinical conditions (asthma, mild concussion, insomnia, etc.).

Affiliation: Concordia University
Departmental Page | Publications | Explore Concordia Page Alain PtitoAffiliation: McGill University
Natalie Phillips My general area of research is cognitive aging and adult human neuropsychology, with an  emphasis on integrating behavioural and electrophysiological (event-related brain potentials,    ERP) measures of brain function in aging and neurological populations. Current research areas  include: 1) identifying patients with mild cognitive impairment (who are at risk for developing  Alzheimer's disease) by studying neuropsychological, electrophysiological, and anatomical  measures of language and executive function; 2) studying interactions between working  memory and language function; 3) audio-visual speech perception in younger and older  adults and patients with dementia; and 4) bilingual language processing. 
 Affiliation: Concordia University
 Departmental Page | Publications | Explore Concordia Page
Tiberiu PopaAffiliation: Concordia University
Departmental Page | Publications Hassan RivazAffiliation:  Concordia University Shawn Robbins Dr. Robbins utilizes biomechanical and clinical measures to assess orthopaedic health conditions, including knee osteoarthritis and anterior cruciate ligament rupture, in both clinical and laboratory settings. He is interested in the factors relating to disease initiation and progression, the effectiveness of interventions, and recovery following surgery. Also, he is conducting research examining the biomechanics of hockey skating and the influence of equipment design on this activity.Affiliation: McGill University
Department Page Mathieu Roy Although the experience of pain usually arises from the activation of dedicated neuronal pathways, it is also importantly shaped by prior expectations, ongoing moods, concurrent tasks, as well as many other contextual factors. Moreover, in many chronic pain syndromes, pain endures in the absence of any objectifiable underlying injury. My research aims at understanding how normal and abnormal pain perception arises from the interplay of various brain network, using a combination of psychopysical, psychophysiological, and brain imaging techniques.Affiliation:  Concordia University

 
Sylvia Santosa The metabolic and cellular mechanisms of why some overweight individuals develop diseases while others do not are not fully understood. Furthermore, in people with diseases, such as cardiovascular disease and diabetes, we do not fully understand how obesity affects the progression or treatment. Obesity treatment itself remains ineffective as most people who lose weight eventually gain it back.The goal of Dr. Santosa’s research program is to identify the long-term effects of obesity, from the cell to the entire body. Her research applies techniques in biology, physiology and nutrition to study the effects of obesity that contribute to weight gain and disease.Results will promote the development of better public health interventions from disease prevention to management.Affiliation:  Concordia University
Departmental Page | Publications | Explore Concordia Page Peter ShizgalI study the neural basis of decision-making, reward, and motivation.

How do animals evaluate competing goals and select alternatives that address their biological needs? What kinds of computations are performed in carrying out such evaluations, and how are these computations implemented by the brain? These questions are fundamental to my research on the neural basis of motivation and reward. My research team and I use a combination of psychophysical, electrochemical, electrophysiological, neuroanatomical and optogenetic methods to identify neurons involved in reward seeking in the rat. A related line of research is aimed at shedding light on the function of the circuitry within which these neurons are embedded. This work includes operant conditioning studies, mathematical modelling within the behavioural economic and reinforcement-learning traditions, and experiments on the interaction of physiological feedback, sensory inputs, and reward signals induced by electrical or optical stimulation. (Supported by grants from the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada and a Concordia University Research
Chair.)

Affiliation: Concordia University
Center for Studies in Behavioral Neurobiology | Publications | Explore Concordia Page Nancy St-OngeDr. St-Onge's main interest is to investigate problems related to sports injury and rehabilitation of movement control in impaired populations. She is interested in how healthy and special populations control their posture and react to perturbations. She studies how electromyographic, kinetic, and kinematic adjustments to mechanical perturbations are affected in health and disease. Variables which are indicative of injury and recovery could be used as an objective basis to decide about the management of special populations and develop or evaluate the outcome of rehabilitation protocol or surgery.

Affiliation: Concordia University
Departmental Page | Publications | Explore Concordia Page Jason SteffenerAffiliation: Concordia University
Truong Vo VanTruong Vo-Van has contributed principally in the study of optical properties of thin films and inhomogeneous media, the design and characterization of advanced materials, the applications of thin films and the design and prototyping of advanced optical metrology instruments. He is author or co-author of about 140 refereed physics publications and numerous scientific reports. Active in promoting transfer of knowledge to society, he has served on several boards of tech-transfer organizations. About 40 graduate students have completed their studies under Vo-Van's supervision and his research has led to the creation of two spin-off companies. Presently, he is conducting research on nanoparticles, nanostructured materials and devices, mostly in the photonics area. In relation with Perform’s mandate, Professor Vo-Van is examining the potential of nanoparticles in imaging and nanomedicine.Affiliation: Concordia University
Departmental Page | Explore Concordia Page
Dajana VuckovicVuckovic group focuses on the development of new analytical methods for high-throughput clinical and preventative health metabolomics.  Her lab primarily focuses on enhancing the analytical performance of mass spectrometry-based methods with a particular emphasis on the development of better extraction and separation technologies for improving the detection of low abundance metabolome and annotation of metabolite biological availability. The group’s major current projects include studies of circadian rhythm, cardiovascular health, stress and mood disorders such bipolar disorder. Her group also develops novel validated targeted mass spectrometric methods for diverse sets of analytes of interest ranging from mycotoxins and drugs to endogenous metabolites such as eicosanoids in biological fluids and tissues.

 Affiliation: Concordia UniversityDepartmental Page | Publications | Explore Concordia Page
Carsten WroschOur research indentifies pathways to successful living across the adult lifespan. We examine from a self-regulation perspective how people can adjust to challenging life circumstances and prevent the adverse consequences on their psychological, biological, and physical health (e.g., depression, cortisol dysregulation, or chronic disease). This research program integrates theories from personality, developmental, and health psychology, and is based on the premise that there are reliable individual differences in people’s personality processes that determine the quality of life of individuals who confront problematic life situations.
Affiliation: Concordia University
Departmental Page | Publications | Explore Concordia Page
Laurel YoungMy research focuses on developing best practice models/guidelines for therapeutic and practical applications of music within various healthcare, psychosocial, and/or community contexts. Current research areas include: the use of music/music therapy in dementia and palliative care, the use of singing to promote health and well being, and the Bonny Method of Guided Imagery and Music. Affiliation: Concordia University
Departmental Page | Explore Concordia Page | CAHD|  CREGES | AIRS | Publications  © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityPERFORM Research MembersPERFORM Centre
            
                PERFORM CentreModelling of normal and pathological dynamics of the brain's anatomo-functional circuits observed by neuroimaging tools to better understand brain activity in healthy aging and disease
                
            
                
					
                    Effect of cognitive stimulation and physical activity on cognitive decline associated with aging and chronic disease
                
            
                
					
                    Understanding the pathophysiology of neurodegenerative conditions using nuclear medicine techniques and developing new approaches for diagnosis and for follow-up tests to assess response to therapy
                
            
                
					
                    Understanding the natural history of obesity in youth, focusing on the physical and social environments that influence overweight/obesity and their behavioural precursors
                
            
                
					
                    The impact of early trauma on human brain development and underlying molecular mechanisms
                
            
                
					
                     Brain synchrony and behavior
                
            
                
					
                    Understanding violence against women, its impact on health, and the role of music/music therapy in addressing issues at both the individual level and societal level
                
            
                
					
                    Understanding the causes of sleep disorders to better inform treatment
                
            
                
					
                    Our immunology laboratory studies environmental factors that contribute to the risk of developing autoimmunity
                
            
                
					
                    Developing and testing strategies and programs to reduce vascular disease and its risk factors by addressing physical activity, eating habits, and social determinants of health
                
            
                
					
                    Understanding the neuromuscular system as it relates to prevention and rehabilitation of orthopaedic injury
                
            
                
					
                    Correlating psychological factors to tissue pathology in chronic pain patients and athletes
                
            
                
					
                    Redox processes, metals and oxidative stress
                
            
                
					
                    Neuro-computational mechanisms underlying the development of learning and decision-making across the human lifespan
                
            
                
					
                    Developing signal processing methods that enable innovative automated medical diagnostic and human performance monitoring tools
                
            
                
					
                    Identifying modifiable risk factors, such as cognitive  control, that can be targeted in early childhood to positively shape later well-being and health-related behavior
                
            
                
					
                    Looking at the impact of lifestyle on the brain in healthy aging
                
            
                
					
                    Building platforms for the efficient and automated processing of Big Data
                
            
                
					
                    How depression, worry, rumination, and sleep disturbances can amplify stress-induced immune dysregulation
                
            
                
					
                    Investigating normal and pathological brain functions combining several modalities (electrophysiology and imaging)
                
            
                
					
                    Understanding how our behaviours, lifestyles, and life circumstances relate to obesity and heart disease
                
            
                
					
                    Cyberwellness: Rethinking Health Research in the Age of New Media and Biosensor Technologies
                
            
                
					
                    Assessing and evaluating rehabilitation and supportive care programs for advanced cancer patients with cachexia
                
            
                
					
                    Which factors influence consumer food choices at home and away?
                
            
                
					
                    Complex bimanual coordination as a marker for cognitive and motor rehabilitation in neurological patients
                
            
                
					
                    Understanding the cognitive and motor processes involved in multiple-task performance in adulthood and healthy aging
                
            
                
					
                    Policy implications of changing demographic structures in comparative contexts
                
            
                
					
                    Research program oriented on sport medicine and musculoskeletal trauma focused towards the development of novel treatment and diagnostic strategies
                
            
                
					
                    Untangling how greater stress and poorer sleep may get under the skin to adversely impact children’s health
                
            
                
					
                    Understanding how diet and exercise impact on cardiovascular and brain function in high-risk patients
                
            
                
					
                    Understanding how nutrition influences the trajectory of age-related cognitive decline, and how individual differences in biology or lifestyle alter the diet-cognition relationship
                
            
                
					
                    Understanding the Biomechanics of Human Locomotion and Injury Prevention
                
            
                
					
                    Understanding the plastic changes that occur in the human brain during motor learning and performance
                
            
                
					
                    Optimizing exercise testing and training approaches in individuals with chronic cardiopulmonary diseases
                
            
                
					
                    Neuroimaging and cognitive markers for the diagnosis, prognosis and rehabilitation of mTBI/concussion
                
            
                
					
                    How cognitive abilities (language, attention) change and interact as we age
                
            
                
					
                    Research includes geometric modeling, animation, 2D to 3D reconstruction, etc. One important focus spatio-temporal geometry acquisition (or 4D geometry acquisition) with vast applications in many disciplines ranging from games, engineering, e-commerce to medical.
                
            
                
					
                     Developing novel image processing algorithms to improve detection and diagnosis capabilities of medical imaging
                
            
                
					
                    Utilizing biomechanical and clinical measures to assess orthopaedic health conditions in both clinical and laboratory settings
                
            
                
					
                    Understanding how psychological factors can effect pain
                
            
                
					
                    Studying the skinny on fat in disease development and progression
                
            
                
					
                    Neural basis of decision-making, reward, and motivation
                
            
                
					
                    Posture, balance, and movement control in healthy and impaired populations
                
            
                
					
                    Understanding the healthy aging process and identifying lifetime exposures and behaviors that provide protection from the onset of cognitive decline by bringing together multiple types of brain imaging techniques, cognitive performance and behavioral measures
                
            
                
					
                     Study of thin films and nanostructures and their applications, and the prototyping of optical metrology instruments
                
            
                
					
                    Developing mass spectrometry methods for targeted and untargeted metabolomics and biomarker quantitation in biofluids and tissues
                
            
                
					
                    Psycho-social pathways to well-being and health
                
            
                
					
                    Understanding how music can help individuals and communities reach their full potential for living wellConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424