http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/cinema/about/message-from-chair.htmlI joined the Cinema Department in 1990, seven years before it became the Mel Hoppenheim School of Cinema. Back then, it was without question the top film department in the country, and I am pleased to say that it remains the best place to learn about film in Canada. Our faculty has more than doubled, and we have added three dynamic graduate programs. Moreover, we have integrated digital production techniques into our filmmaking and animation classes; and state-of-the-art digital projection facilities into our screening rooms.At the Mel Hoppenheim School of Cinema we live and breathe movies. This is the largest, University-based centre for the study of film animation, film production and film studies in Canada. Each year it accepts some 200 students from across Canada and many other countries into its undergraduate and graduate programs. Students are taught by internationally renowned film artists and scholars, all of whom are extremely active in their fields.Cinema may have peaked as an art form of the 20th century, but in the 21st century it has become much more than that. As film evolves into new media that we can watch just about anywhere, the study of film history becomes ever more important. The ability to make films, including animated films, and to be able to understand their secrets, are critical tools in contemporary culture. The question “What is Cinema?” continues to be asked, and our mission is not to answer the question, but to continue reinventing cinema and revisiting the cinema that came before.Students in all undergraduate programs take film studies courses and become familiar with global cinema and its critical role in culture and society. Students in the Film Studies program are able to develop their critical thinking in the context of a wide-ranging curriculum covering history, theory and method. In all our programs, the emphasis in the classroom is placed decisively on helping students enhance their individual talents and ideas. Our award-winning students are extremely active, organizing screenings and publishing their work. Our graduate students travel widely to speak about their research and show their work.Housed in a downtown Montreal office building, the School is located at the heart of a city obsessed with cinema. Our film studies scholars teach and publish on a wide range of topics of importance to filmmakers and film viewers everywhere, and also of importance well beyond cinema. Our film production and film animation faculty work in a variety of genres, and their films are screened around the world. As the School develops new academic exchanges in China, Cuba, France and Germany, our international reputation is steadily growing. Graduates of our programs can be found throughout Quebec, Canada, and the world making movies, teaching cinema, and deeply involved in the world of film and media.Mel Hoppenheim
 School of Cinema
514-848-2424Reception & General Inquiries: ext. 5034Undergraduate Affairs (current students): ext. 4335Graduate Affairs (current students): ext. 4666cinema@concordia.ca514-848-4255Mel Hoppenheim
 School of Cinema
 1250 Guy St., FB 319
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3H 2T4Mel Hoppenheim School of Cinema
 Concordia University
1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8© Concordia UniversityMel Hoppenheim School of CinemaConcordia UniversityMessage from the ChairMel Hoppenheim School of Cinema
            
                Mel Hoppenheim School of Cinema
            Contact usLocationMailing addressConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/art-history/about/message-from-chair.htmlElaine Cheasley PatersonBienvenue au département de l’histoire de l’art de l’université Concordia, dans notre magnifique ville de Montréal.

Welcome to Art History, to Concordia University as a whole and to the beautiful city of Montreal, my home town.

I am Dr Elaine Paterson, craft scholar and decorative art historian. I’ve been teaching full time for the Department of Art History since 2004, and as of June 2016 am also Chair.

As you pursue your education at Concordia and prepare for a professional life beyond it, you may discover a passion for the arts here or be coming to us because of your love of art, architecture, craft, design, fashion, photography, a combination of these or others. My hope is that you leave here having gained useful ways of thinking critically, of thinking creatively and, most importantly, of thinking for yourself in order to make your own contributions to culture in Canada and wherever else life takes you.

In this Department, we are all engaged with what we teach, research, write, curate and are excited to share it with you and to find out what inspires you! As professors, we are active participants in the discipline of art history and believe creativity really matters in the world.

Our Department of Art History is situated within one of the largest art schools in Canada — a surrounding filled with art making and exciting opportunities for collaboration, both within and beyond Art History. Some of you may be artists yourselves, whether practicing in our joint majors or maintaining your practice while completing your studies. Either way, I encourage you to make the most of your time within the Faculty of Fine Arts by creating your own network of peers to sustain you throughout your degree and well past its completion.

The spirit of collegiality and intellectual curiosity within the Department of Art History is also evident in its student-led initiatives. Becoming involved in the University community though these dynamic groups may offer more ways of discovering what you’re good at and for thinking expansively about what matters to you.

The students I met during my time as a graduate student in Concordia’s MA programme in Art History have remained my friends and colleagues to this day. As a graduate student at Concordia, I was encouraged to explore histories of craft at a time when few in Canada were doing so. This progressive and sustaining Department is now my professional home where my teaching and research in craft contributes to a field currently exploding in scholarship and curating, while also inspiring community and political activism.

Concordia, and specifically art history, has much to offer you — how to be a creative, critical thinker, how to connect with the world around you, how to make change where it’s needed, and how to go your own way with the assurance that your path is valid.

Your future begins at Concordia. We are so glad you are here!

© Concordia UniversityAbout
Programs
Research & creation
Student life
News & eventsConcordia UniversityMeet the ChairDepartment of Art History
            
                Department of Art HistoryLearn moreConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424