http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2015/02/04/olivier-hinse-leads-the-Stingers-hockey-team.htmlEver since he first skated onto the rink at Ed Meagher Arena three years ago, Olivier Hinse has been a leader. As captain of the Stingers men’s hockey team, he has scored 18 goals so far, the second-highest number in Canadian Interuniversity Sport (CIS).“He's probably one of the best leaders we've ever had,” says Kevin Figsby, the team’s head coach. “It's his dedication to wanting to improve every day and his work ethic that allow him to lead the pack. His work ethic is infectious.”Born in Sherbrooke, Quebec, 23-year-old Hinse started his hockey career after briefly training as a speed skater. He advanced from midget AAA hockey — where he finished second in scoring in 2008 — to the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League (QMJHL), where he played for the Victoriaville Tigres.Hinse played for four teams in the junior league. In his time at the Quebec Remparts, he was coached by Hockey Hall of Famer Patrick Roy.“Roy showed me how to be a professional — ‘whatever happens, just do your best,’” Hinse says. “He showed me how to be a winner, even if you don't win all the time.”When Hinse joined the Stingers in 2012, Figsby didn’t hesitate: he gave him a leadership role off the bat.“Hinse is the first player in the 15 years I've been here who has worn a captain’s letter from his first day,” he says. “We named him an assistant captain in his first year.”This season is Hinse’s first as team captain, but he’s taking the extra pressure in his stride.“I'm just proud to have it,” he says. “I want to be a good role model for the younger guys who are coming up, and I want to set a good example on the ice, so having the 'C' on my jersey is not a stressful thing; I just have to show my leadership.”If you ask his teammate Kyle Armstrong, a fourth-year forward, Hinse has done just that.“He's really taken this team under his wing,” Armstrong says. “I'd say he's the fastest player in the country, fastest player I've ever played with, too. He's been great off the ice and on the ice.”Hinse has become known for that speed, which he attributes to his trainer. He has been working with Jean-François Gaudreau for the past 10 years — especially in the summer — to improve his game.And while Hinse’s hockey accomplishments are undoubtedly remarkable, his off-the-ice activities are nothing to shake a stick at. As well as taking four classes per term at Concordia, he works at Reebok-CCM Hockey as a field-testing assistant and coaches a junior AAA team.These activities are why Figsby plans to nominate Hinse for the Dr. Randy Gregg Award, an annual honour presented by the CIS to students who exhibit outstanding achievement in hockey, academics and community involvement. The winner will be announced in mid-March.“In my opinion, Olivier Hinse will graduate from Concordia with a degree, and he'll move on and play professional hockey,” Figsby says. “Hopefully he'll end up in the American Hockey League. He's that good.”But with the playoffs on the horizon, the Stingers are focusing on more immediate challenges.“We have a great mix of guys,” Hinse says. “We have the depth to go far. We can play any team in the league.”
Cheer on Olivier Hinse and the rest of the Stingers men’s hockey team as they take on McGill in the 28th Corey Cup at 7:30 p.m. on Saturday, February 6 at the Ed Meagher Arena (7200 Sherbrooke St. W.). 
  
        On the road with the Stingers
    
        Concordia plays host to Harvard at an exhibition hockey game 
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityStingers captain Olivier Hinse: ‘He’s that good’News
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsKnown for his speedFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424