http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/parents.htmlConcordia is a dynamic university made up of small communities. With welcoming residences, accessible faculty, quality student services, we deliver a great education and a life-changing experience. Tour our campusesHousing & diningLife in MontrealCampus lifeApplicants will receive a response anywhere from 48 hours for Cegep students to eight weeks or more for international students. Because the admissions process varies for each student and program, we cannot give specific dates for a decision. See more details about the application assessment period. The best thing for your student to do is to keep checking back at MyConcordia.ca for an update on the status of their application.For all information on available scholarships and financial aid, please visit the pages of our Financial Aid and Awards Office.Concordia University strives to keep class sizes small and manageable, allowing students to create lasting relationships with their professors, as well as get the full advantages offered to them by having direct access to their instructors. Approximately two thirds of our first-year undergraduate courses have fewer than 60 students.At Concordia, there are many resources available to assist students if they are having trouble with their academics. Professors and teaching assistants have office hours, and academic advising is available through each individual Faculty.We also offer a variety of academic services, such as tutoring, mentoring and skills workshops and personal support through our Student Success Centre.We offer personal counselling and support through Counselling and Psychological Services.  The Concordia University Security Department is dedicated to maintaining a secure university environment which allows students to study, work and live in a safe setting. Our school maintains 24-hour campus patrol, and all of our residences are equipped with both an access card and key system in order to maximize safety.Furthermore, students can opt to receive emergency alerts from the university via email or text message on their cell phone. They can sign up for this service through their MyConcordia portal, under the “Messaging” tab.The Office of Emergency Management at Concordia University uses Facebook and other channels to promote emergency preparedness and alert the community of emergencies on or around campus.Students, faculty, and staff with a valid Concordia ID card can take advantage of a free, 20-minute shuttle bus service between campuses. Our shuttle buses run on a regular schedule, approximately every 20 to 25 minutes.Or, for avid cyclists, the city’s De Maisonneuve bike path connects our two campuses for an easy ride.The Société de transport de Montréal (STM) maintains an extensive network of bus routes and underground metro stations throughout the city that is reliable and easy to use. In addition, the STM offers a reduced-fare monthly bus/metro pass (the OPUS card) for students.How to obtain your OPUS card.For more information on the OPUS card, including restrictions, fees and travel fare details, please consult the STM website.Each of our campuses has a dedicated Health Services clinic. For more information on the health services and medical insurance coverage available to the student in your family, visit our Health Services website. For information on the Concordia Health Insurance Plan for International Students, please visit our International Students Office.During university, a student’s first job is schoolwork — and that can be a full-time job in itself. We recommend that students allow for an extra two to three hours of school work and studying for each hour spent in class. This means that a full-time student will be busy with 45 to 60 hours of school work per week.However, many students are able to balance a part-time job during their studies, and we offer many opportunities right here, on campus. There are also many paid positions listed on the Concordia University Off-Campus Housing and Job Bank, or HoJo, as we like to call it.Student records are available to the student, and to authorized University staff and faculty only. Students may obtain a copy of their record through the Concordia student portal, MyConcordia.ca. They may also obtain a physical copy ($5 fee) from the Birks Student Service Centre during normal operating hours, or by written request.Tuition receipts and access to student account balances are only available to students via the MyConcordia student portal.We offer several online tools to assist students with the payment of tuition and fees; however, we encourage parents and guardians to remind students to verify their account balance, and to make note of payment deadlines.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityParentsResources Your questions answeredHow long will it take before students receive an admission decision?
                
            
                
					
                    What scholarships are available?
                
            
                
					
                    How big are the classes?
                
            
                
					
                    What should students do if they are having trouble in a course?
                
            
                
					
                    How safe are university campuses?
                
            
                
					
                    There are two campuses? How do students get from Sir George Williams to Loyola in time for class?
                
            
                
					
                    What public transportation options are available in Montreal?
                
            
                
					
                    What if a student becomes sick?
                
            
                
					
                    Should students get a part-time job in first year?
                
            
                
					
                    Can parents or guardians view student grades?
                
            
                
					
                    Can parents or guardians view the outstanding balance on a student’s tuition?Concordia Parents AssociationConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424