http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/photography.htmlEveryone has an opinion about a photograph. Anyone can take one. But the medium is deceptive. Behind photography’s mass appeal is a highly technical artistic discipline with distinct intellectual traditions.Photography blends art and technology. When you study photography, you’re exposed to digital and film-based photographic practices. You’ll learn camera and darkroom techniques for colour and black-and-white prints, digital photography tools and printing skills. You’ll also take courses that give you:You’ll leave us as a fine arts photographer, able to control the camera to express yourself, to produce a coherent body of work and to take your skills into many creative enterprises.A Bachelor of Fine Arts degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background.Concentrations:Photography is a discipline with a distinct artistic and historical identity. This program recognizes that contemporary photographic practice encompasses a rich diversity of formal and conceptual approaches.As a Photography Major you will receive a strong historical and theoretical understanding of the medium. You will also acquire the concepts and vocabulary necessary for critical discussion of your own photographic work and the work of others. Emphasis is placed on photography's social and artistic ramifications.Photography students have access to a full range of digital and analog outputs. Exposure to these techniques and technologies help to bring about a broader understanding of contemporary image construction and media specificity.See detailed degree requirements in the Undergraduate Calendar.Annual capacity(This program is only available for Fall admission)Cegep profileNo specific profile required. However, following a profile in the arts may help applicants build a successful portfolio.Additional requirementsApplicants must submit the following directly to the Department of Studio Arts:Minimum Cut-off Averages should be used as indicators. Data may change depending on the quality of the application pool. Admission to the Faculty of Fine Arts is very competitive. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Admission to most programs is based on portfolio/audition evaluations as well as academic grades. Applicants selected for admission have normally achieved grades that exceed minimum requirements.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.March 1Certain programs have extended their deadlines. Please check program availability.N/AAdmission to this program is only available for the Fall Term.
 We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.Sample classesCourse descriptionsBrowse all Studio Arts course descriptions in the Undergraduate Calendar.Faculty membersLearn about our Studio Arts faculty.Student work drives the creative energy in the Faculty of Fine Arts, and you’ll have many opportunities to exhibit your work in art festivals and exhibitions at on-campus venues such as the FOFA and VAV galleries.To see what current students are working on, visit our events page.Our darkrooms and digital areas are accessible Monday to Friday until 10 p.m. and Saturday until 9 p.m. during the school year. Students should have their own 35mm camera for basic courses. Other photographic facilities include:You also have access to portable photographic equipment:Discover the full range of equipment available in each of these facilities.Your degree can lead to many paths such as:A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityPhotography (BFA)Related programsKey resourcesJoin the conversationDegree options
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Arts in action
                
            
                
					
                    Facilities
                
            
                
					
                    After your degreeWhy study Photography?Program detailsUnited States  studentsBachelor of Fine Arts (BFA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Minimum cut-off averages