http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/political-science.htmlPolitical Science teaches you about the ways that history, ideas, systems and structures give rise to power and authority. By learning to think critically about relationships of power, you’ll be well-placed to contribute to the public life of your country and the world. Political Science is one of the most popular degree choices at Concordia, with a student body among the most diverse and politically aware in Canada. You’ll find yourself sharing ideas with classmates whose backgrounds represent cultures and political systems from around the globe. You’ll gain insights from prominent national and international academic guest lecturers, as well as politicians and ambassadors.Choose courses from these groups:A Bachelor of Arts degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 ­– 120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background.Concentrations:Degree requirementsSee detailed degree requirements for each option in the Undergraduate Calendar.No specific courses are required beyond a DECMinimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
 Course descriptionsRequired coursesYou must complete the following number of Political Science credits:Within these, each concentraion also has specific required and optional courses. See the curriculum for each option.Sample classesCo-op program
 The Co-op program gives academically strong students a chance to bridge university life and the working world by completing paid work terms. Co-op work terms make it possible for you to work in:Internship
 Students with a minimum of 39 completed credits and a GPA of 3.5 or above have the option of participating in an internship placement in either the public or private sector. Witht the guidance of the Internship Coordinator, positions are normally secured by the student and can be unpaid, but offer an exciting opportunity to gain valuable work experience and build career networks. The internship can be taken during any semester (Fall, Winter, Summer).Learn more about the Internship.There are many exciting exchange programs available for Concordia students. Information on existing exchange programs are available via the Concordia Student Exchange Program.Interested students should contact the Undergraduate Program Director for information on how these opportunities fit into your academic program.Political Science graduates have established careers in fields such as:Many have gone on to complete graduate degrees and pursue careers in domestic and international NGOs and the United Nations.A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityPolitical Science (BA)Related programsKey resourcesJoin the ConversationProgram options & degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Practical experience — Co-op and Internship
                
            
                
					
                    Study abroad
                
            
                
					
                    After your degreeWhy study Political Science?Program detailsUnited States  studentsBachelor of Arts (BA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Cegep StudentsMinimum Cut-off Averages