http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/chemistry/programs/undergraduate/procedures-forms.htmlThe following are links to summary documents describing, for each program:To help you plan your own schedule, we have created a fill-in form. Scheduling your courses is your responsibility. However, if you need to meet with an advisor to discuss your program and course selections, please be sure to fill in the appropriate checklist beforehand in order to save time:Biochemistry checklist
 Chemistry checklistCertain student requests are handled internally in the Department:Fill in a departmental student request formPlease note. There are strict deadlines for applications from registered students because labs start in the second week of term:Fill in a departmental lab exemption request form.Note: Depending on your browser configuration, you may have to save the blank form, fill in the saved copy, and then re-save it to preserve the information you entered. Here is how to fill in PDF formsPlease make sure you do not e-mail a blank form!Certain student requests are handled by the Faculty of Arts and Science, but require a departmental advisor's signature for processing. For more information and forms, see the faculty web site. Such requests include:If you think you have done one or more program courses elswhere, which have not already been recognised as part of your admission conditions, and you wish to apply for transfer credit for them, you need to fill in the application form, and provide the department with as much information about the courses as possible.A brief calendar description is usually not adequate. Return the form and supporting materials to the departmental office.Forms are available from the Departmental Office , or Prof. P. Pawelek, for permission to do CHEM450 (Honours Thesis) or CHEM419 (Independent Study)Most professors in the Department recommmend, and many require students taking their courses to attend a seminar about plagiarism and other forms of academic dishonesty. Get more information about the academic integrity seminar.These are courses given only occasionally, and which are not described in the Undergraduate Calendar.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityProcedures & formsDepartment of Chemistry & Biochemistry
            
                Department of Chemistry & BiochemistryCourse schedules and advising
                
            
                
					
                    Student requests
                
            
                
					
                    Advanced standing for newly admitted students
                
            
                
					
                    Application to do a senior project
                
            
                
					
                    Departmental seminars on academic integrity (CHEM101)
                
            
                
					
                    Advanced courses scheduledConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424DepartmentalFaculty