http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/pure-and-applied-mathematics.htmlMathematics is a universal language that explains the currents of the ocean, string theory, the spiral of a snail’s shell or the growth of a fern. When you study pure and applied mathematics, you enter a field that has both a rich history and many future career possibilities. As a mathematician, you’ll design and analyze mathematical models and develop systems for testing and evaluation. In essence, you will use mathematics to find creative solutions for systems such as communications, software development, encryption technologies, banking and drug testing.Through labs and lectures, you will learn to use professional software tools for mathematics and data analysis applications. You’ll also learn to think in the abstract and fine-tune your analytical skills.After graduation, students have the knowledge and skill to design and analyze mathematical systems in any number of scientific or business fields. This program is designed to prepare students for graduate studies.A Bachelor of Arts or Science degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background.Concentrations:*Admission is to the Specialization. Students in the specialization program seeking admission to the honours program may apply to the departmental honours advisor – normally following the completion of 30 credits.See full degree requirements in the undergraduate calendar.Minimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.Minimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
 Consult the undergraduate calendar for a complete list of current courses.The Co-op program gives you the chance to complete paid work terms that last 12 to 16 weeks. As a Co-op student, you will work for firms where you may:Learn more about our Co-op programs.
Mathematics alumni can pursue graduate studies after graduation. Others have established careers in a range of industries that require mathematical and statistical models for research and industrial development, including:A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityPure and Applied Mathematics (BA, BSc)Related programsKey resourcesJoin the ConversationDegree options
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements — BSc
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements — BA
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Sample classes
                
            
                
					
                    Co-op program
                
            
                
					
                    After your degreeWhy study Pure and Applied Mathematics?Program DetailsUnited States  studentsBachelor of Arts (BA), Bachelor of Science (BSc)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Cegep StudentsMinimum Cut-off AveragesCegep StudentsMinimum Cut-off Averages