http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/statistics.htmlStatistics is the science of information that lets you discover patterns behind data. As a statistician, your understanding of probability theory lets you make decisions in the face of uncertainty. Statisticians also conduct surveys, analyze data, devise new methods of analysis and give advice on the statistical results of experiments such as clinical trials. Though it’s impossible to predict the future with 100 per cent accuracy, studying statistics will teach you creative problem solving, abstract thinking and analytical skills.When you study statistics, you learn to uncover the mathematical structure of random systems such as the economy, health and survival, the weather, and the stock market. You will also receive a solid foundation in linear algebra, calculus, probability and computational methods and learn to use professional software tools for mathematics and data analysis applications.An undergraduate degree in statistics prepares students for graduate work in statistics or in a professional career in business, industry, medical research or government agencies.A Bachelor of Arts or Science degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background.Concentrations:*Admission is to the Specialization. Students in the specialization program seeking admission to the honours program may apply to the departmental honours advisor – normally following the completion of 30 credits.See degree requirements for each concentration in the Undergraduate Calendar.Minimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.Minimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
 Consult the undergraduate calendar for a complete list of current courses.The Co-op program gives you the chance to complete paid work terms that last 12 to 16 weeks. As a Co-op student, you will work for firms where you may:Learn more about our Co-op programsStatistics alumni have established careers in areas such as:A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityStatistics (BA, BSc)Key resourcesJoin the ConversationDegree options
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements — BSc
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements — BA
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Sample classes
                
            
                
					
                    Co-op program
                
            
                
					
                    After your degreeWhy study Statistics?Program DetailsRelated ProgramsUnited States  studentsBachelor of Science (BSc), Bachelor of Arts (BA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Cegep StudentsMinimum Cut-off AveragesCegep StudentsMinimum Cut-off Averages