http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/studio-art.htmlDevelop your own path as a creative artist in one of Canada’s foremost environments for the study of contemporary visual art. As a Studio Art major, you’ll have the flexibility to choose one or combine any of our seven disciplines: Ceramics, Fibres and Material Practices, Intermedia (Video, Performance, and Electronic Arts), Painting and Drawing, Photography, Print Media, Sculpture and Installation. By joining a large Faculty of Fine Arts with strengths in every artistic field, you will learn a full range of technical and theoretical approaches to artmaking, putting you at the forefront of this exciting, rich and complex field of study.Working in studios equipped with professional tools and equipment, you will discover a variety of processes and techniques. You will also develop the critical abilities to evaluate artistic work and create your own personal direction through the exchange of ideas on contemporary art with practising artists. Choose from studio courses that reflect currents in today’s art world. Or, combine your studio practice with a degree in Art History, enabling you to balance art practice with academic studies.A Bachelor of Fine Arts degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background.Program option:Annual capacity(This program is only available for Fall admission)Cegep profileNo specific profile required. However, following a profile in the arts may help applicants build a successful portfolio.Additional requirementsApplicants must submit the following directly to the Department of Studio Arts:Minimum Cut-off Averages should be used as indicators. Data may change depending on the quality of the application pool. Admission to the Faculty of Fine Arts is very competitive. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Admission to most programs is based on portfolio/audition evaluations as well as academic grades. Applicants selected for admission have normally achieved grades that exceed minimum requirements.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.March 1Certain programs have extended their deadlines. Please check program availability.N/AAdmission to this program is only available for the Fall Term.
 We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.Sample classesYou have the flexibility to choose from a range of courses that address the practice, theory and history of art. You’ll also take courses with artists across all disciplines — exploring new ideas and imagining the frontiers of contemporary art together. As a Studio Art student you’ll take:Course descriptionsBrowse all Studio Arts course descriptions in the Undergraduate Calendar.Student work drives the creative energy in the Faculty of Fine Arts, and you’ll have many opportunities to exhibit your work in art festivals and exhibitions at on-campus venues such as the FOFA and VAV galleries.To see what current students are working on, visit our events page.Studio facilities in all fine arts disciplines are amongst the best in Canada, offering a full range of workspaces and technicians that can help you learn the skills of an artistic discipline.Discover the full range of equipment available in each of these facilities.Your degree can lead to many paths such as:A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityStudio Art (BFA)Related programsKey resourcesJoin the conversationDegree options
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Art in action
                
            
                
					
                    Facilities
                
            
                
					
                    After your degreeWhy study Studio Art?Program detailsUnited States  studentsBachelor of Fine Arts (BFA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Minimum cut-off averages