http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/diploma/students.htmlWant to be featured on this page? We would love to feature our current class profile here. If you would like to share a little about yourself, please submit your profile to Marie Lyster, Student Recruitment Officer at marie.lyster@concordia.ca.Please find below your program schedules for the upcoming year: 
For the latest updates to class room and professor assignements please check the University class schedule.Newly admitted students who have paid their confirmation deposit will receive course registration guidelines by email. For further information, please email karen.fada@concordia.ca and always include your student ID number in all correspondence.See your term at a glance, find funding, conferences, campus services, activities and more. There are currently no events for current students. Please check back as the year progresses!Program director
Sandra BettonProgram assistant
Karen Fada1450 Guy Street
Suite MB 6.201 (see map)
Montreal, QuebecTel: 514-848-2424, ext. 2708
Fax: 514-848-2816
© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityCurrent studentsJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            Tell us about yourself!Contact usJoin the conversationTell us about yourself!Current GDBA/GCBA student resourcesConcordia student hubGDBA eventsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/co-op/students.htmlWhen you enroll in Co-op, you’ll get a head start on building your career. Alternating between study and work terms gives you a glimpse of your future career opportunities, the chance to test what you have learned in school and the ability to gain practical work experience.Sound interesting? Before you apply to a Concordia Co-op program, take the time to find out a few key things you need to know about our Co-op programs.
As a Co-op student, depending on your program, you may acquire between 4 and 16 months of work experience related to your academic program, through paid work terms. This gives you an advantage over other graduating students in a competitive job market.You’ll also enjoy a wide range of benefits and services that enhance your Co-op experience and help you to be better prepared for your working life:The success of the program speaks for itself: studies have shown that Co-op students’ academic performance improves after work term experiences and they tend to find better jobs more easily after graduation and advance more quickly in their careers.Read what students have to say about their Co-op experiences.See the sample job responsibilities for:If you are interested in Co-op, the first thing you should do is to check to see if your degree program offers a Co-op option. See the Co-op programs page for the complete list of undergraduate and graduate programs.After you are accepted into the program, you’ll have at least two academic semesters before your first work term. After that you’ll alternate between study and work terms. However, you must remain a full-time student throughout the program and register for at least 12 credits per study term for undergraduate students. You must be either on a work term or in school full-time each term.Note that each program has its own study /work term sequence:Graduate students have a flexible schedule and work terms are available in any semester, but they must maintain their full-time status. Check with the Co-op office for more details.Joining Co-op gives you the chance to work for a wide range of employers. Prior to each work term, you apply for jobs that are posted on COMPASS, our on-line system. You are encouraged to also find opportunities on your own, as long as they meet our criteria, or create your own job. You can also do your work term outside of Quebec or overseas.While finding a job is ultimately your responsibility, we give you all the support we can.  We offer mandatory workshops on writing resumés, cover letters, and interview skills, and coach you while you develop your job search. As part of the Co-op experience, we offer you additional workshops to enhance your career development. Co-op FeesCo-op students are obliged to pay co-op fees, in addition to their regular tuition and fees, to cover in part the administrative costs particular to Co-op. This fee is currently $185 per term. For undergraduate students admitted to a co-op program, the Co-op fee is normally payable in each of the first eight (8) terms, in which the student either enrolls in any number of courses or is on a work term, for a total fee of $1,480. Students requiring fewer than the normal number of terms to complete their programs in the co-op format will be charged double fees during their work term(s). All students are subject to the same total fee of $1,480. The last Co-op fee is charged either prior to or in the term when the last work term is scheduled. Graduate students are charged $185 in each of the terms before, during, and after their work term. For example, for one work term, graduate students pay $185 x 3 = $555.All co-op students who withdraw from the co-op program on or before the published DNE withdrawal deadline will receive a refund or financial credit on their student account of the co-op fee. Students who withdraw from the co-op program after the published DNE withdrawal deadline will not receive a refund or financial credit for the co-op fee.All Co-op students on work terms must be paid by their employer, but Co-op puts the emphasis on experience, not salaries. The salary you earn from your work term depends on your field, employer, your work experience (including Co-op work experience) and other factors. Visit our Employers section to see salary ranges.Work term evaluationsCo-op students receive a grade of Fail, Pass or Pass with Distinction for each work term. The work term evaluation is based on three components: Reflective Learning (Reflection in Action)Undergraduate students also participate in a Reflective Learning course throughout their work terms. In this course you’ll learn to think critically about the workplace, reflect on your personal goals and objectives, and examine the relationship between what you learn in the classroom and on the job. Each reflective learning course is worth three complementary credits and is marked on a pass/fail basis. The grade has no impact on your overall GPA, but it is indicated on your transcript.Students who are currently on a work term are enrolled in a Work Term and Moodle Course and will have access to all relevant information they need during the work term. For students who are not currently on a work term, all important information can be found on COMPASS.Log into COMPASS through the MyConcordia portal and click on Student Services.Select COMPASS then select "Resources" or your Moodle Course when enrolled on a work term.© Concordia UniversityStudents
Employers
Awards & scholarships
Co-op Alumni
Co-op TeamInstitute for Co-operative Education
 1550 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West, Suite 430, Montréal, QC   H3G 1M8

Phone: 514-848-2424 ext. 3950   Fax: 514-848-2811 
Email: coopinstitute@concordia.caConcordia UniversityCo-op for studentsInstitute for Co-operative Education
            
                Institute for Co-operative Education
            Program requirements – what to expectJoin the ConversationBenefits for students
                
            
                
					
                    Co-op programs
                
            
                
					
                    Study/work sequences
                
            
                
					
                    Securing a work term
                
            
                
					
                    Fees
                
            
                
					
                    Salaries
                
            
                
					
                    Work term evaluationsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424