http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/applied-human-sciences/student-life/undergraduate-advising.htmlAll AHSC undergraduate students are encouraged to visit the department for academic advising at least once a year to ensure they are following their program’s and the university’s requirements.Note: Academic advising is ONLY for students in AHSC programs.NOTE: Sign-in time for drop-in advising on Thurs, Nov 17 will be from 10:00-11:00am.Sign-in time: Thursdays 9:00-10:00am BLOCK academic advising is scheduled in 20-minute blocks Tuesday mornings from 9:00am - 12noon AND Wednesday afternoons 1:30pm - 4:00pm.Note:  These procedures are for students currently in a BA program.IMPORTANT INFORMATION:REQUIREMENTS:Students MUST have a minimum of 24 Concordia credits completed with a Cumulative G.P.A. of 2.70.Change of Concentration application packages must include:1. A letter of intent (maximum 2 pages), which should cover the following areas:2. A Change of Concentration Form completed and signed.3. An Unofficial student transcript.Note: Incomplete application packages will not be considered!Complete packages are to be submitted to the AHSC Undergraduate Coordinator in L-VE-223 by the deadline.APPLICATION DEADLINES:If you have questions about our programs please consult our website or attend one of our Information Sessions.The following are procedures for students who wish to 'add' or 'drop' a:Note:  These procedures are for students currently in a BA program.IMPORTANT INFORMATION:REQUIREMENTS  'adding a MINOR in HUMAN RELATIONS':Students MUST have a minimum Cumulative G.P.A. of 2.70.Change of Concentration application packages for must include:1. A letter of intent (maximum 2 pages), which should cover the following areas:2. A Change of Concentration Form completed and signed.3. An Unofficial student transcript.Note: Incomplete application packages will not be considered!Complete packages are to be submitted to the AHSC Undergraduate Coordinator in L-VE-223 by the deadline.REQUIREMENTS  'DROPPING a MINOR in HUMAN RELATIONS':1. A Change of Concentration Form completed and signed.2. An Unofficial student transcript.APPLICATION DEADLINES:If you have questions about our programs please consult our website or attend one of our Information Sessions.The following are procedures for students who wish to 'apply for a 'degree transfer' to one of the following:Note:  These procedures are for students currently in a NON-BA program.IMPORTANT INFORMATION:REQUIREMENTS:Students MUST have a minimum of 24 Concordia credits completed with a Cumulative G.P.A. of 2.70.Degree Transfer application packages must include:    A letter of intent (maximum 2 pages), which should cover the following areas:Follow the procedures on the university's degree transfer page in order to make your Degree Transfer application.  Go part way down the page to 'Already a Concordia student? — Internal degree transfer' and follow the directions.Note: Incomplete application packages will not be considered!APPLICATION DEADLINES:If you have questions about our programs please consult our website or attend one of our Information Sessions.If you receive a letter from the Faculty of Arts & Science Student Academic Services office informing you that you have been placed on 'conditional standing', you are required to come to an AHSC 'block advising' time to meet with the Undergraduate Coordinator.Information sessions for non-AHSC students who are interested in an AHSC program are:Sep 29, Oct 20, Nov 24, Dec 15, Jan 19All sessions are in L-VE-317 starting at 9:30am (until 11:00am).  IT IS ESSENTIAL THAT YOU ARRIVE ON-TIME!  These are not one-on-one appointments but open information sessions where all questions will be answered.You are encouraged to browse our website for information on our programs.Congratulations on your acceptance to undergraduate studies in the Department of Applied Human Sciences (AHSC).  We are very happy that you have decided to pursue your studies with us!© Concordia UniversityDepartment of Applied Human Sciences
Office L-VE-223
 1455 de Maisoneuve Blvd. West
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 1M8
7141 Sherbrooke St. West,
Office VE-223
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 2E9

See building mapConcordia UniversityUndergraduate advisingDepartment of Applied Human Sciences
            
                Department of Applied Human Sciences
            AHSC offers two types of academic advising:New StudentsChange of Concentration
                
            
                
					
                    Adding/Dropping a Minor in Human Relations
                
            
                
					
                    Degree Transfer
                
            
                
					
                    Conditional Standing 
                
            
                
					
                    Information Sessions for non-AHSC studentsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424