http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/art-history/research/websites.htmlThe following websites and electronic publications document faculty and student research projects.Anne (Annie) Douglas Savage was a Canadian artist and teacher who made a significant impact on Canadian art and education. She was one of the first women to participate actively in the creation of a Canadian school of painting, and an early exponent of child art and creative teaching. Trained as a painter, and a self taught teacher, her success as an educator and her development as a painter were concurrent. Visit the siteGuido Nincheri (1885-1973), one of Canada's most important stained glass masters also introduced the technique of true fresco to North America. This bilingual website results from the collaboration between the Atelier d'histoire Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and the Research Collections of the Digital Image and Slide Library at Concordia University. It documents some of Nincheri's religious and secular works of ornamentation, stained glass, fresco and other mural painting in Montreal. Visit the siteProfessor Catherine MacKenzie and the following graduate students from the MA program are responsible for the writing of a catalogue entitled Auktion 392: Reclaiming the Galerie Stern, Düsseldorf, that accompanies an exhibition of the same title:The catalogue entries relied heavily on the provenance research of Philip Dombowsky, a graduate of the MA in Art History program and now Project Archivist, Dominion Gallery fonds, National Gallery of Canada and independent researcher for the Max Stern Estate. Other MA and undergraduate students who helped with the project are Anja Borck, Sheena Ellison and Marsha Taichman. Auktion 392 ran from October 20 to November 10, 2006 at the Concordia University FOFA Gallery. As guest curator, Professor MacKenzie extends her profound gratitude to Lynn Beavis, the highly creative former coordinator of the FOFA Gallery, and Andrew Elvish, independent designer and Director of Communications for local high-tech company Engenuity, who produced a remarkable installation that brought to life the story of the Galerie Stern from its formation in 1913 to its forced closure under Nazi duress in 1937. Both are graduates of the MA program in Art History. A PDF of the catalogue is available from the website designed by Art History MA student, Erandy Vergara Vargas, under the supervision of Sandra Margolian, Assistant to the Director of Special Projects, Office of the President, Concordia University. Thanks to Dr. Clarence Epstein, Director of Special Projects, for inviting the Department to become involved in this project, and to the Max Stern Estate, Concordia University, Hebrew University in Jerusalem, McGill University, Christie's, Sotheby's, and Apple for their support.Visit the sitePresented by the Gail and Stephen A. Jarislowsky Institute for Studies in Canadian Art, the Canadian Art News website is a comprehensive guide to Canadian art events. This website promotes Canadian art and artists by announcing a wide variety of events such as conferences, public lectures, exhibitions, calls for papers, forums, publications and exhibitions within Canada and around the world. Updated regularly, the site includes a monthly calendar and previews of upcoming months, as well as an archives section that over time will become a valuable source of recent and historical information.Visit the siteThis website/project aims to provide information in the form of a biographical dictionary of over seventy selected living artists in Canada, of mainly eastern European origin. Spanning the period from the 1930s to the present, its focus encompasses both artists who came to Canada in the last seventy years, and first and second generation artists reconnecting with their eastern European heritage. Visit the siteCanada has no national portrait gallery. A program rather than a building, an idea rather than a landmark, the Library and Archives Canada Portrait Portal brings together works amassed since the 1880s. Graduate students of Art History, the curators of this website have worked under the guidance of professor Loren Lerner of Concordia University to produce virtual exhibitions of these Canadian portraits. Intersecting social history, artistic practices, cultural aspects of representation, the resulting selections interrogate the role of portraiture, a concrete representation, for the nation, an especially abstract entity. In addition to producing two distinct virtual exhibitions, each curator wrote in turn an extended essay on a single picture presenting a particular curatorial, historical or theoretical problem, informed by major thinkers within and outside the field of Art History. Finally, collaboration with the students of Concordia Studio Arts professor Marisa Portolese led to the production of short, pointed curatorial texts on photographic portraits by the students, exploring the portrait archive of the times to come.Visit the siteConceived as a pilot project to use the Internet to increase awareness and expand interest in Canadian sculpture, a searchable bilingual database on this site makes thousands of images of traditional Canadian art and information about historical Canadian sculptors available on the web. Visit the siteThe database is intended to provide a research tool that brings together the growing body of literature about women artists who worked in Canada and who were born before 1925. It covers women who worked in diverse mediums, ranging from painting and sculpture to photography and textiles. In addition to a brief biographical sketch, each entry comprises a bibliography of writings about the artist and, in cases where women artists have authored works, a separate bibliography of their writings. Locations of artists' files are indicated, as well as their association memberships. The database is not comprehensive; new artists and citations are continuously being added. Visit the siteDiving for a Sunken Canadian Treasure: Rediscovering the P.S. Lady SherbrookeThe P.S. Lady Sherbrooke, a vessel used to navigate the waters of a newly discovered land, is an essential element in Canadian history. The two basic purposes to this website are to describe the P.S. Lady Sherbrooke and then to outline the complexities involved in what was the largest, privately supported, underwater archeological dive in Canadian history.Visit the siteProficient in many media, Eleanor Milne (b.1925) continues to play an active role in the Canadian art world. She was Canada's Dominion Sculptor from 1961 to 1993, contributing many elements to the Centre Block of Parliament. She created stone carvings of the History of Canada, the British North America Act and the Origin of Life in Canada. She also designed stained glass windows for the House of Commons, and oversaw the restoration of the linen ceiling of the House.Visit the siteJazz music provides an analogy for explaining modern and contemporary art, by using musical expressions such as distinctive tone colours, energizing and syncopated rhythms, pitch variations, pattern and improvisation. This exhibition and accompanying symposium features Canadian artists Sam Borenstein, Graham Coughtry, Jacques de Tonnancour, Yves Gaucher, Betty Goodwin, John Heward, Harold Klunder, Guido Molinari, Michael Snow, Sylvia Safdie and Joyce Wieland, whose works explicitly evoke associations with jazz. Whether it is through their experiences as jazz musicians, their love for music, or the jazz-like spontaneity communicated in their paintings, this art from the 1960s to the present day can be considered in musical terms. The exhibition is an initiative of Concordia University's art history graduate students, working in partnership with the FOFA Gallery, the Gail and Stephen A. Jarislowsky Institute for Studies in Canadian Art, the Concordia University Archives and the Leonard and Bina Ellen Art Gallery. Most of the works for this exhibition were selected from the latter's collection. This exhibition and symposium were the results of a M.A. graduate seminar in Museum Practice taught by Loren Lerner in Fall 2007. The students defined the exhibition theme, selected the works, and handled different aspects of the exhibition, including: the design of the exhibition space; the preparation of the panel texts; the writing and presentation of the symposium papers; the development of the website; and the organization of an educational program to accompany the exhibition.Visit the siteFamily Works is a website produced in partnership with Concordia University and the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts.

Students in the undergraduate seminar Here’s Looking at You Kid: Picturing Children, Envisioning Childhood, led by Dr. Loren Lerner, Professor in the Department of Art History at Concordia University, have produced a compelling body of research on eighty-two artworks in the permanent collection of the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts that portray children, childhood and family in different historical and cultural contexts. The student works were conceived by artists in the Studio Arts program at Concordia University led by Raymonde April, Laura Endacott and Tema Stauffer.

This introductory guide is intended to facilitate access to relevant biographical and bibliographic information pertaining to contemporary First Nations artists and includes the artist's full name, date and place of birth, as well as First Nations affiliation, followed by a short biographical description. We have produced a bibliography of the most recent and/or important writings on each artist, which is meant to introduce the reader to that artist's work. A recent exhibition history is provided with an emphasis on Canadian venues. Also listed are selected collections containing the artist's work, to enable the user to see the original art.Visit the siteThis website is the inaugural issue of the Jerusalem Art History Journal: An Undergraduate eJournal/Histoire de l’art à Jérusalem : cyberrevue étudiante de premier cycle derives from the City of Jerusalem: Ideas and Images course taught by Dr. Loren Lerner in the Department of Art History at Concordia University. The course considers different attachments to Jerusalem through visual perceptions and artistic representations at the religious, social and political levels. Its focus is on the multifaceted narratives, allegiances, and ideas of the city's history covering ancient times, the Roman and Byzantine periods, the Arab, Crusader and Mamluk periods, and the years under Ottoman, British Mandate, Jordan/Israeli and Israeli rule. Of central importance is the visual imagery of the real and imagined Jerusalem in the art and architecture created by different communities over thousands of years. The best papers are included in this first issue. The students had a choice of two assignments. The first was to write an essay about the art, architecture, archaeological sites, or urban spaces of Jerusalem from a particular era. The second choice - since a good many of the students are artists in Concordia's studio arts programs - was to create and write about a work of art, reflecting a visual response to this ancient city as a site of major world religions.View the Jerusalem Art History Journal: An Undergraduate eJournal/Histoire de l’art à Jérusalem : cyberrevue étudiante de premier cycleThe Metro Borduas website is an online catalogue of the exhibition "Metro Borduas: The Underground Landscape of Abstract Art in Montreal." Curated by students in Loren Lerner's Museum Studies graduate seminar, the exhibition explores the legacy of revolutionary Quebec painter Paul-Émile Borduas (1905-1960). Originally displayed at Concordia's Faculty of Fine Arts (FOFA) Gallery and including works from the Leonard and Bina Ellen Art Gallery collection, the creative exhibition draws on Montreal's ubiquitous transit system to "map" Borduas' and his contemporaries' dynamic artistic contributions to Canadian art. The website consists of a curatorial essay, excerpts from the panel texts, information on the exhibition and photographs of the accompanying events. These events included a graduate student symposium featuring a talk by artist Stephen Schofield, public tours and a lecture by preeminent Borduas scholar François-Marc Gagnon, Chair of the Gail and Stephen A. Jarislowsky Institute for Studies in Canadian Art. Most importantly, the website includes eleven very diverse scholarly essays by the student co-curators. The exhibition and the accompanying website were made possible by the contributions of Concordia's Department of Art History, the Fine Arts Alumni Association, the Leonard and Bina Ellen Art Gallery, the FOFA Gallery and the Gail and Stephen A. Jarislowsky Institute for Studies in Canadian Art.Visit the siteThe city of Montreal is a palimpsest, a series of surfaces upon which various actors, communities and organizations have left their trace in the form of the built environment. Much as the early seigneurial system of land division is still visible in many quarters of the city, so too are subsequent layers of urban and architectural development still alive, if only in the form of memories, in present-day Montreal. What is the nature of the relationship between a city, its memories and communities, and its ongoing transformation? Graduate students in architectural history have chosen distinct sites in Montreal to explore these questions. Drawing from the past, present and even the future of their chosen sites, the presenters of Montreal as Palimpsest explore the significance of architecture within the cultural landscape of Montreal.Visit the sitePicturing Children and Youth: A Canadian Perspective examines pictures, artefacts, and the spaces and places of the young person. A key focus is the imagery created by artists practicing in all forms of media, ranging from painting and drawing to photography and film. The website is the product of two undergraduate courses in the Faculty of Fine Arts, Concordia University, offered in the Fall term, 2010: Picturing Children taught by Loren Lerner, professor, Art History, and Boy/Girl Culture, taught by Marisa Portolese, professor, Photography. Our hope is that this website will encourage further critical analyses and creative activity relating to children and youth.We gratefully acknowledge the support of the Gail and Stephen A. Jarislowsky Institute for Studies in Canadian Art and the Department of Art History.Visit the siteThis website is an ongoing collective and collaborative project. With pk langshaw from the Department of Design and Computations Art as creator of the website, it was made with the assistance of students from Design and Dr. Loren Lerner from the Art History department. The project has realized a series of artistic interventions, symposium, satellite projects, and web site through the main contributions and support of Concordia University. Visit the siteThis website is an ongoing project of the Department of Art History Department. Compiled by graduate students, it is meant to be a used as a tool for sharing resources for studying the visual arts in Canada.Visit the siteVisual & Textual Documents on Art and Architecture in Canada is a virtual anthology of selected print and archival records that relate to the production and dissemination of Canadian art. It is designed to bring students closer to the primary sources of creative and scholarly history in Canada. The material assembled covers the vast array of art documents generated between the late-nineteenth and mid-twentieth centuries. More than a simple bibliographical database, Visual & Textual Documents on Art and Architecture in Canada makes rare and hard-to-access material available directly on the Internet: each entry in this ever-growing anthology includes the scanned reproduction of a record, along with full bibliographical information and an abstract.© Concordia UniversityAbout
Programs
Research & creation
Student life
News & eventsConcordia UniversityWebsites by the departmentDepartment of Art History
            
                Department of Art HistoryAnne Savage
                
            
                
					
                    Art of Guido Nincheri/l'Art de Guido Nincheri
                
            
                
					
                    Auktion 392: Reclaiming the Galerie Stern, Düsseldorf
                
            
                
					
                    Canadian Art News
                
            
                
					
                    Canadian Artists of Eastern European Origin
                
            
                
					
                    Canadian Portraits
                
            
                
					
                    Canadian Sculpture from the Hayward and Brault Collections
                
            
                
					
                    Canadian Women Artists History Initiative
                
            
                
					
                    Diving for a Sunken Canadian Treasure
                
            
                
					
                    Eleanor Milne: The Making of an Artist in Canada
                
            
                
					
                    Ensemble, An Exhibition of Art and Jazz
                
            
                
					
                    Family Works: A Multiplicity of Meanings and Contexts
                
            
                
					
                    First Nations Art: An Introduction to Contemporary Native Artists in Canada
                
            
                
					
                    Jerusalem Art History Journal: An Undergraduate eJournal
                
            
                
					
                    Metro Borduas
                
            
                
					
                    Montreal as Palimpsest
                
            
                
					
                    Picturing Children and Youth
                
            
                
					
                    Public Art as Social Intervention
                
            
                
					
                    Researching the Visual Arts in Canada
                
            
                
					
                    Visual & Textual Documents on Art and Architecture in CanadaConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/research/jarislowsky/research-and-resources/websites.htmlFunded by a grant from the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada, the objectives of this project are to comprehensively document the works of Quebec artist Paul-Émile Borduas and to make this information easily available to scholars, collectors and the interested public through an innovative tool that combines the extensive research of theCatalogue raisonné with the flexibility and accessibility of the Internet.Financé par une subvention du Conseil de recherches en sciences humaines du Canada, ce projet a comme objectif de documenter de façon complète les œuvres de l’artiste québécois Paul-Émile Borduas et de rendre ces renseignements accessibles aux chercheurs, aux collectionneurs et au grand public grâce à un outil novateur qui propose les importantes recherches du Catalogue raisonné et la flexibilité et l’accessibilité d’Internet.Picturing Children and Youth: A Canadian Perspective examines pictures, artefacts, and the spaces and places of the young person. A key focus is the imagery created by artists practicing in all forms of media, ranging from painting and drawing to photography and film. The website is the product of two undergraduate courses in the Faculty of Fine Arts, Concordia University, offered in the Fall term, 2010: Picturing Children taught by Loren Lerner, professor, Art History, and Boy/Girl Culture, taught by Marisa Portolese, professor, Photography. Our hope is that this website will encourage further critical analyses and creative activity relating to children and youth. Two premises guided this study and creative production of images. The first holds that the concept of youth is a historically changeable social construction that can inform our learning about actual children. The second is not to interpret these representations simply as illustrations of a verifiable external reality. Making images presupposes the visual inventiveness that characterizes the agency of the creator. The Maritime Art Association website presents the first available history of the association and deals specifically with the decade following its formation in 1935. The website provides a detailed record of the activities of the MAA, its exhibition programme and its other projects that served to identify the art community in the Maritime Provinces from the mid 1930s to the mid 1940s. The textual information is supported by illustrations of documents, letters and similar archival materials that help tell the story of the MAA.Le site Internet dédié à la Maritime Art Association présente la première histoire disponible de cette association et porte spécifiquement sur la décennie suivant sa formation en 1935. Le site offre un dossier détaillé des activités du MAA, son programme d’exposition et ses autres projets qui ont servi à faire connaître la communauté artistique des provinces maritimes du milieu des années 30 à celles des années 40. L’information textuelle est soutenue par la reproduction de documents, de lettres et de documents d’archives qui aide à comprendre l’histoire de la MAA.The city of Montreal is a palimpsest, a series of surfaces upon which various actors, communities and organizations have left their trace in the form of the built environment. What is the nature of the relationship between a city, its memories and communities, and its ongoing transformation? In the context of a graduate seminar in the Department of Art History, Concordia University, and several public conferences, students in architectural history have chosen distinct sites in Montreal to explore these questions. Using site visits, archival resources and visual culture, contributors to Montreal as Palimpsest explored their chosen sites as cultural landscapes, reading them for their investment in specific pasts, and revealing the traces of their polyphonic histories. The essays that are found on this site, written over a period of three years, are intended to be public, scholarly resources, available to anyone who wishes to learn more about Montreal's architectural and urban histories.La ville de Montréal est un palimpseste, une superposition de couches sur lesquelles les différents acteurs, les communautés et les institutions, ont laissé leurs traces dans l’environnement bâti. Quelle est la nature de la relation entre la ville, ses souvenirs et ses communautés dans le processus de sa transformation? Pour répondre à ce questionnement, les sites spécifiques ont été choisis à travers la ville par les diplômés en histoire de l’architecture, dans le cadre d'un séminaire de deuxième cycle (Département de l'histoire de l'art, l'Université Concordia) et plusieurs conférences publiques. La visite des sites, les ressources archivistiques et la culture visuelle disponible ont permis aux participants de Montréal comme Palimpseste de considérer leur site en tant que paysage culturel afin d’analyser un moment précis du passé et d’en révéler les traces de l’histoire polyphonique. Écrits sur une période de trois ans, les essais trouvés sur ce site sont disponibles à quiconque souhaite en apprendre davantage à propos des histoires architecturales et urbaines de Montréal.Jazz music provides an analogy for explaining modern and contemporary art, by using musical expressions such as distinctive tone colours, energizing and syncopated rhythms, pitch variations, pattern and improvisation. This exhibition and accompanying symposium features Canadian artists Sam Borenstein, Graham Coughtry, Jacques de Tonnancour, Yves Gaucher, Betty Goodwin, John Heward, Harold Klunder, Guido Molinari, Michael Snow, Sylvia Safdie and Joyce Wieland, whose works explicitly evoke associations with jazz. Whether it is through their experiences as jazz musicians, their love for music, or the jazz-like spontaneity communicated in their paintings, this art from the 1960s to the present day can be considered in musical terms. The exhibition is an initiative of Concordia University's art history graduate students, working in partnership with the FOFA Gallery, the Gail and Stephen A. Jarislowsky Institute for Studies in Canadian Art, the Concordia University Archives and the Leonard and Bina Ellen Art Gallery. Most of the works for this exhibition were selected from the latter's collection. This exhibition and symposium were the results of a M.A. graduate seminar in Museum Practice taught by Loren Lerner in Fall 2007. The students defined the exhibition theme, selected the works, and handled different aspects of the exhibition, including: the design of the exhibition space; the preparation of the panel texts; the writing and presentation of the symposium papers; the development of the website; and the organization of an educational program to accompany the exhibition.L'art moderne et contemporain peut être appréhendé par analogie avec la musique jazz, à laquelle il emprunte des concepts tels les timbres caractéristiques, les rythmes vifs et syncopés, les variations de ton, les thèmes et l'improvisation. L'exposition met en vedette les artistes canadiens Sam Borenstein, Graham Coughtry, Jacques de Tonnancour, Yves Gaucher, Betty Goodwin, John Heward, Harold Klunder, Guido Molinari, Michael Snow, Sylvia Safdie et Joyce Wieland, dont les oeuvres comportent des affinités évidentes avec le jazz. Que ce soit à titre de musiciens, de mélomanes, ou par la spontanéité typique du jazz qu'ils communiquent à leurs œuvres visuelles, ils permettent une lecture musicale de l'art moderne et contemporain exprimé depuis les années 60. L'exposition est une initiative des étudiants de deuxième cycle en histoire de l'art de l'Université Concordia, en partenariat avec la galerie FOFA, l'Institut de recherche en art canadien Gail et Stephen A. Jarislowsky, le Service des archives de l'Université Concordia et la Galerie Leonard et Bina Ellen, qui a prêté la plupart des oeuvres présentées. Les organisateurs de l'exposition encouragent les visiteurs à vivre une expérience multisensorielle d'appréciation de l'art visuel, en suivant les correspondances qui lient l'image à la musique jazz.Every day, over one million people in Montréal ride the métro, a process that orients our experience of the city. By associating artwork to particular métro stops, this exhibition points to the historical conditions of their production and presentation, as well as to locations of special significance in the lives of the artists concerned. Plotting key moments in the history of non-figurative painting and its legacy, Métro Borduas contextualizes the work socially and politically. In many cases, the details of this history predate the construction of the métro in 1966. It is thus a narrative that will serve metaphorically as a kind of temporal sediment upon which the city's cultural “tracks” were laid.Tous les jours, plus d'un million de personnes utilisent le métro, ce qui influence leur expérience de la ville. En associant différentes œuvres à des stations de métro, l'exposition souligne les conditions historiques de leur production et de leur présentation, ainsi que les lieux qui ont marqué la vie des artistes. En retraçant les moments-clés de l'histoire de la peinture non-figurative et de son héritage, Métro Borduas place les œuvres dans un contexte social et politique. Dans plusieurs cas, les détails de cette histoire sont antérieurs à la construction du métro en 1966. Cette narration servira donc, métaphoriquement, de sédiment temporel sur lequel se poseront les « rails » culturels de la ville.Canadian Art Documents is a virtual anthology of selected print and archival records that relate to the production and dissemination of Canadian art. It is designed to bring students closer to the primary sources of creative and scholarly history in Canada. The material assembled covers the vast array of art documents generated between the late-nineteenth and mid-twentieth centuries. More than a simple bibliographical database, Canadian Art Documents makes rare and hard-to-access material available directly on the Internet. Each entry in this ever-growing anthology includes the scanned reproduction of a record, along with full bibliographical information and an abstract.« Canadian Art Documents » est une anthologie virtuelle de documents imprimés et d’archives choisis qui portent sur la production et la distribution de l’art canadien. Elle est conçue afin de donner aux étudiants un accès privilégié aux sources primaires d’histoire créative et académique au Canada. Le matériel présenté couvre la vaste gamme de documents artistiques produits entre la fin du XIXe siècle et le milieu du XXe. Plus qu’une simple banque de données bibliographiques, « Canadian Art Documents » rend accessible des documents rares et difficiles à trouver, et ce, directement sur Internet. Chaque fiche de cette anthologie sans cesse grandissante comprend la reproduction numérisée d’un document d’archive, ainsi que des renseignements bibliographiques complets et un résumé.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityProject websitesFaculty of Fine Arts
            
                Faculty of Fine ArtsCanadian Portraits
                
            
                
					
                    Picturing Children and Youth: A Canadian Perspective
                
            
                
					
                    Maritime Art Association
                
            
                
					
                    Montreal as Palimpsest
                
            
                
					
                    Ensemble, An Exhibition of Art and Jazz
                
            
                
					
                    Metro Borduas
                
            
                
					
                    Visual and Textual Documents on Art and Architecture in CanadaConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424