http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/cissc/lectures-conferences/archives/2009-2010.html"Remembering and Forgetting in Acadie"
September 14, 2009   4:15 - 6:00 p.m.   LB-649Remembering and Forgetting in Acadie focuses on a series of Acadian commemorative events in order to examine how certain aspects of history are remembered while others are forgotten.More information on "Remembering and Forgetting in Acadie"Public Lecture:  "The Politics of Literary Reputation, or How Writers Become Famous"September 28, 2009     4:30 - 6:30pm     H-767MIGS Seminar:  "Creating 'Textbook Reds'?  How East German Education Aimed to Win the Minds of Youth"September 29, 2009  Noon - 1:30pm  LB 1014 Public Lecture:  "Citizenship, Public Art, and the Multivoiced Body:  Chicago's Millennium Park"October 17, 2009   8:00pm    DB Clarke Theatre  1455 de Maisonneuve - Hall Bldg.William Petty and the Ambitions of Political Arithmetic"November 2, 2009     4:15pm    Room: LB 649William Petty (1623-1687) was a key figure in the English colonization of Ireland, the institutionalization of experimental natural philosophy, and the creation of social science.  Prof. McCormick traces Petty's education, his early work, and his involvement in the Cromwellian conquest and settlement of Ireland, and his engagement with both science and the politics of religion in the Restoration.WHAT IS RESEARCH?
SESSION:  ART AS RESEARCHNovember 6, 2009    1:00pm to 3:00pm     LB 659-4The question "what is research" seems immanent to the pursuit of interdisciplinary studies in society and culture. Doctoral students in the Ph.D. in Humanities program engage with a broad range of subject matter as well as a great variety of methodologies and theoretical orientations.  This year's Interdisciplinary Dialogues series addresses the question:  how does interdisciplinarity affect our understanding and experience of research?In the first of a series of sessions, Doctoral Humanities students with a studio component to their doctoral project will reflect on the potentialities and challenges of practice-based research and what "research-creation" means to them. Panelists are:Faculty and Students are invited to attend.November 6, 2009 |  9:30am - 5:00pm  | Hall Building Room 767  | 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.How is cultural heritage authenticated, preserved, and legitimated?  Is heritage a 'secularized' version of a society's religious past?  How do conflicts over heritage relate to citizenship and identity in religiously plural societies?  How do those conflicts play out in global circulations of media, museums, world expositions and tourist productions?The colloquium is free and open to the public.For further details, please contact Jeremy StolowMonday, November 16, 2009  |  Noon  | LB 612Breath, Media, Body, Space:  Brazil's Catholic Charismatic Renewal MovementDr. Maria Jose de Abreu, originally trained as an anthropologist of religion at the University of Amsterdam, does fascinating work on questions of embodiment, technology, and movement in the context of the Charismatic Catholic movement in contemporary Brazil: a religious movement for whom notions of breath (as pneuma, or spirit, but also as a force of decentred subjectivity) are quite central.  Her work is both grounded in careful ethnographic research as well as engaging with a range of philosophical debates about the human senses and their technological extensions.November 20, 2009   |   10:00am   |  Hall Building, Room 435The Centre for Interdisciplinary Studies in Society and Culture (CISSC) was created in 2007 by the Faculty of Arts and Science and the Faculty of Fine Arts to strengthen Concordia's national reputation for scholarship and creative work that reflects upon the human condition.  All faculty members in Arts and Science and Fine Arts, and especially Concordia's new faculty members and Assistant Professors are invited to participate.  This workshop will provide information on the Centre's activites, answer questions and solicit ideas regarding what CISSC might offer in the future.  At the same time, the session will introduce the Centre's Ph.D. in Humanities prorgam and outline how faculty can participate.Minority Governments in India:  The Puzzle of Elusive Majorities 
November 25, 2009   Noon    LB-1014India's national parliamentary elections typically result in the election of majority parliaments and the formation of a single-party majority government.  However, India's national party system has changed beyond recognition since the parliamentary elections of 1989.  Dr. Nikolenyi will address aspects of party system transformation in India by applying the analytical techniques of rational and social choice theory.  The Indian case study is theoretically driven and it is readily comparable with other parliamentary federations where minority governments are often formed, such as Canada. Le Recul du Sacrifice:  French Debates on SacrificeJanuary 13, 2010 | Noon | LB 1014   Note:  The talk will be in EnglishAbordez la question du sacrifice avec un ethnologue, il verra aussitôt un large éventail de pratiques rituelles, allant du sacrifice humain jusqu'aux offrandes végétales, en passant par diverses immolations sanglantes. Parlez-en à un spécialiste de la morale, il verra des pratiques d'abnégation et un conflit entre égoïsme et altruisme. Discutez-en avec un théologien, il évoquera les doctrines de l'eucharistie et de la rédemption avant de se demander si le christianisme est vraiment une religion sacrificielle. Ce livre d'histoire montre comment le sacrifice est devenu l'objet de grands débats en France depuis 1520 jusqu'aux lendemains de la Première Guerre mondiale.Holocaust Commemoration and the Disappearance of History 
January 28 | 7:00 p.m. | H-767, Henry F. Hall Bldg., 1455 de Maisonneuve W.In his book, Michael Dorland explores sixty years of medical attempts by French doctors (mainly in the fields of neuropsychiatry and psychoanalysis) to describe the effects of concentration camp incarceration on Holocaust survivors.Prof. Dorland grew up in Montreal.  He has studied in London and Paris, held research fellowships at the Université du Québec, and at Duke University in the US. He has also taught at Concordia, McGill, and UQAM before joining Carleton University in 1992. Uncreative Writing 
January 29, 2010 | 4:00 p.m. | EV 1.1605, Engineering, Computer Science and Visual Arts Complex, 1515 St. Catherine St. WestKenneth Goldsmith's writing has been called "some of the most exhaustive and beautiful collage work yet produced in poetry" by Publishers Weekly. Goldsmith is the author of ten books of poetry, founding editor of the online archive UbuWeb (ubu.com), and the editor of I'll Be Your Mirror: The Selected Andy Warhol Interviews, which was the basis for an opera, "Trans-Warhol," that premiered in Geneva in March of 2007. An hour-long documentary on his work, "Sucking on Words" premiered at the British Library in 2007. Kenneth Goldsmith is the host of a weekly radio show on New York City's WFMU. He teaches writing at The University of Pennsylvania, where he is a senior editor of PennSound, an online poetry archive. He has been awarded the The Anschutz Distinguished Fellow Professorship in American Studies at Princeton University for 2009-10 and received the Qwartz Electronic Music Award in Paris in 2009.  A book of critical essays, "Uncreative Writing," is forthcoming from Columbia University Press, as is an anthology from Northwestern University Press co-edited with Craig Dworkin, "Against Expression: An Anthology of Conceptual Writing."More information please contact Jason CamlotRelationscapes:  Movement, Art, Philosophy February 3, 2010 | Noon | LB- 646 | J.W. McConnell Bldg., 1400 de Maisonneuve W.With Relationscapes, Erin Manning offers a new philosophy of movement challenging the idea that movement is simple displacement in space, knowable only in terms of the actual. Exploring the relation between sensation and thought through the prisms of dance, cinema, art, and new media, Manning argues for the intensity of movement. From this idea of intensity—the incipiency at the heart of movement—Manning develops the concept of preacceleration, which makes palpable how movement creates relational intervals out of which displacements take form.Relationscapes is a radically empirical book, working directly out of examples and delving into the complexity of relations these examples suggest. It takes a "Whiteheadian perspective," recognizing Whitehead's importance and his influence on process philosophers of the late twentieth century—Deleuze and Guattari in particular. Relationscapes is truly a transdisciplinary book, not aiming to cover the ground of a particular discipline but making clear how the specificity of a particular inquiry can alter key questions that emerge in the interstices between disciplines. It will be of special interest to scholars in new media, philosophy, dance studies, film theory, and art history.Boundary Maintenance and Jewish Identity
Comparative and Historical PerspectivesFebruary 5, 2010 | 10:00 a.m. | LB 649 | J.W. McConnell Library Building, 1400 de Maisonneuve WestCalvin Goldscheider is Professor Emeritus of Sociology, Ungerleider Professor Emeritus of Judaic Studies, and a faculty Associate of the Population Studies and Training Center, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island.  His current research focuses on ethnicity, immigration and religion in Israel and in Sweden.  He is currently a Scholar in Residence at the Center for Israel Studies, American University.For more information:  Ira RobinsonBetween Play and Politics
Dysfunctionality in New Media ArtFebruary 11, 2010 | 7:00 p.m. | H-767 | Hall Building, 1455 de Maisonneuve WestMarie-Laure Ryan is a prominent literary scholar and critic. She has published over fifty articles on narrative theory, genre theory, linguistic approaches to literature, and digital culture and given numerous invited lectures.  She has written several books and articles on narratology, fiction and cyberculture, and has been awarded several times for her work.  She was the 2001-2002 Recipient of a Guggenheim Fellowship Project: Literary Cartography.  She is currently a Scholar in Residence at the University of Colorado.Dr. Ryan will also lead a seminar for faculty and students on Narrative and Interactivity: a Difficult Relationship on Friday, February 12 at 10 am in LB 659.04, J.W. McConnell - Library Building, 1400 de Maisonneuve West.WHAT IS RESEARCH?
Session II: Research, Ethics, Politics
Roundtable & DiscussionFebruary 12 | 1:00 pm - 3:00 pm | Room: LB 646 | J.W. McConnell Library Bldg, 1400 de Maisonneuve WestThe question "what is research" seems immanent to the pursuit of interdisciplinary studies in society and culture. Doctoral students in the Ph.D. in Humanities program engage with a broad range of subject matter as well as a great variety of methodologies and theoretical orientations.  This year's Interdisciplinary Dialogues series addresses the question:  how does interdisciplinarity affect our understanding and experience of research?Panel II:   Exploring the ways in which research is embedded in and inextricable from ethical issues and political considerations understood more broadly. Discussions by:Contested Childhood in Apartheid South AfricaFebruary 15, 2010 | 4:15 p.m. | LB 646 | J.W. McConnell Library Bldg, 1400 de Maisonneuve WestMonica Patterson completed her University of Michigan doctorate in Anthropology and History, with additional certificates in Teaching and Museum Studies. Her dissertation Contested Childhoods in Late-Apartheid South Africa: 1976-1990 examines how adults integrate early experiences of violence into their understandings of themselves, their pasts and the transition to democracy. Her teaching and research interests include colonial and postcolonial southern Africa, anthropology and history, childhood, violence, memory and public scholarship.The Alphabet, Ghosts, Distributed Being
Becoming Beside Ourselves in the Digital EraMarch 4, 2010 | 7:00 p.m. | H-763 | Henry F. Hall Building, 1455 de Maisonneuve WestBrian Rotman is a British-born professor who works in the United States. Trained as a mathematician and now an established philosopher, Dr. Rotman has blended sign, mathematics and the history of writing in his work and teaching throughout his career.  He is currently a distinguished humanities professor in the department of comparative studies at Ohio State University, has also taught at Stanford and given invited lectures at universities throughout the United States including Berkeley, MIT, Brown, Stanford, Duke, Notre Dame, Penn State, Minnesota, and Cornell. Rotman’s best known books include Signifiying Nothing: The Semiotics of Zero which provides a wide-ranging exploration of the zero sign and Ad Infinitum… The Ghost in Turing’s Machine.Convenor:  William Buxton (Communication Studies) March 5 | 1:00 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. | Annex CI-104 | School of Community and Public Affairs, 2149 Mackay StreetFree AdmissionThis colloquium will focus on funding for the arts and the humanities and will combine comparative historical studies with an examination of current trends in the support of the arts and  humanities in Canada.  In particular, it will explore how research and teaching in the arts and the  humanities have been shaped by the designs and priorities of large philanthropic bodies and government agencies.  Part 1:  Historical Case Studies of Canada, United States and Australia.  Part 2: What are the Prospects for the Arts and the Humanities in an Age of Cutbacks and Strategic Funding?  What are the implications of the 2010 Federal Budget for the funding of the Arts and Humanities?   Presentations followed by round-table discussion.For more information:  William BuxtonUNLOCKING THE EYE
STUPIDITY AND COMPASSIONATE SEEINGRobert Hariman, Northwestern University March 8 | 3:00 p.m. | LB-646, J.W. McConnell Building | 1400 de Maisonneuve WestFaculty and Graduate Students are invited to attend. Free admission.Professor Robert Hariman is a professor of rhetoric and public culture in the Department of Communication Studies at Northwestern University.  His book publications include Political Style: The Artistry of Power (University of Chicago Press, 1995) and No Caption Needed: Iconic Photographs, Public Culture, and Liberal Democracy(University of Chicago Press, 2007), which is co-authored with John Louis Lucaites.  He and John Lucaites maintain nocaptionneeded.com, a blog on photojournalism, politics, and culture. He has edited volumes on Popular Trials: Rhetoric, Mass Media, and the Law (1990), Post-Realism: The Rhetorical Turn in International Relations (1996, co-edited with Francis A. Beer), and Prudence: Classical Virtue, Postmodern Practice (2003).Professor Hariman has published articles and book chapters in history, international relations, law, education, classics, and communication studies.  His work has been recognized by article and book awards as well as election as a distinguished scholar by the National Communication Association.  Two articles have been published in Chinese translation, and a French translation of Political Style was published in 2009.  He serves as a co-editor for the book series Studies in Rhetoric and Culture (Berghahn) and on the editorial boards of two other book series and a number of journals including the Quarterly Journal of Speech andRhetoric and Public Affairs.  He also is one of several co-editors of the forthcoming Norton Anthology of Rhetoric and Writing.Romantic Antiquity: Rome in the British Imagination 1789-1832 Monday, March 15, 2010 | 4:15 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. | LB-646J.W. McConnell - Library Building,  1400 de Maisonneuve WestProf. Sachs examines the uses of antiquity in forging literary and political modernity in Britain during the long eighteenth century. His book, Romantic Antiquity: Rome in the British Imagination, 1789-1832 examines how Romantic-period writers deploy Roman republican precedents to contest central aspects of political modernity including the expansion of political franchise, the rise of mass democratic movements, and the consolidation and spread of empire. By focusing on how historically-mediated distinctions between “Rome” and “Greece” shift in Romantic-period culture, the book reveals the presence of an internally differentiated classical world in the period’s culture wars.  Prof. Sachs is presently at work on a book-length study of cultural decline in the later eighteenth and nineteenth century, tentatively entitled Visions of the End: British Culture and the Concept of Decline, and on essays linking emergent understandings of orality and the importance of place in literary interpretation. Entangled
Technology and the Transformation of Performance Wednesday, March 17 | 4:15 p.m. - 5:30 p.m.| LB 659.04 | J.W. McConnell Library Building, 1400 de Maisonneuve WestThis ambitious and comprehensive book explores technology’s influence on artistic performance practices in the twentieth and twenty-first centuries. In Entangled, Chris Salter shows that technologies, from the mechanical to the computational—from a "ballet of objects and lights" staged by Diaghilev's Ballets Russes in 1917 to contemporary technologically enabled "responsive environments"—have been entangled with performance across a wide range of disciplines. Salter examines the rich and extensive history of performance experimentation in theater, music, dance, the visual and media arts, architecture, and other fields; explores the political, social, and economic context for the adoption of technological practices in art; and shows that these practices have a set of common histories despite their disciplinary borders.Violence, Métissage and African Canadian Literature March 24 | 5:30 p.m. - 7:30 p.m.   | H-1220  | Henry F. Hall Building, 1455 de Maisonneuve WestDr. Clarke is E.J. Pratt Professor of Canadian Literature at the University of Toronto. Poet, playwright and literary critic, his extensive publication record includes several, highly acclaimed works of poetry, among which Execution Poems(winner of the 2001 Governor-General Award for poetry), drama (Trudeau. Long March/Shining Path [2007]; Québécité [2003]), fiction (George and Rue [2004]) non-fiction (Odysseys Home: Mapping African-Canadian Literature [2002]) as well as numerous essays in scholarly journals. Professor Clarke’s writings explore the various social, cultural and literary dimensions of race and processes of racialization in the Canadian context.For more information Daniel SaléeI Forget Therefore I Care: Experiments with Agency Across Naturecultures
A lecture by Spurse March 25 | 7:00 p.m. | H-767, Hall Building, 1455 de Maisonneuve West 
What if Nature and Culture were just comfortable fables? What if we left behind such stories? What comes after Nature? What are some of the possible logics of practice? Members of the international research collective spurse will address some of their recent work that crosses between philosophy, the sciences and art to experiment with how we are of the world and not merely in the world.Spurse Collective is an open-ended group of individuals and organizations that work together as a type of experimental consultation service towards the development of new forms of engagement, practices and knowledges.  It is interested in the development of new critical practices and experimental forms of wonder which complicates our judgments and defeats our easy essentializing habits. Much of its work involves the setting up of various types of methodologies to first consult/probe/problematize the given and then collectively develop, with communities (both human and nonhuman), new practices and systems of engagement which can allow for new forms of knowledge production and systems of engagement. March 26 | 1:00 pm - 3:00 pm | Room: LB 646 | J.W. McConnell Library Bldg, 1400 de Maisonneuve WestFinal Session III:  "Research and Processes of Life" Roundtable & DiscussionThis year's Interdisciplinary Dialogues series addresses the question:  how does interdisciplinarity affect our understanding and experience of research?  The final session focuses on the processual character of every research in resonance with the “outside” of research practices. Through the notion of process one can reconsider what it would mean to replace fixed entities and a teleological conception of research by an open-ended approach toward encounters. Without becoming imprecise or allowing a lack of concreteness in the rigor that serious research aims at, the allowance of an openness toward process might enable new avenues of thinking about research and life. Such a processual approach produces entities and enunciations but also acknowledges the excess of each enunciation and therefore foregrounds the importance for a continuing critical attentiveness in our research. The processes engaged in our research practices always take us further and beyond the manifestation of our research and feed into processes of life as that which always lies beyond what is right now, yielding a future for new formations, ideas, and creativity.All are Welcome to Attend. Between Theory and Performance Practices March 26 | 3:15 p.m. - 4:30 p.m.| Sense Lab, EV-11-655 | 1515 Ste-Catherine West, 11th FloorBased in NYC from 1988 to 2004 Karen Sherman now lives in Minneapolis and works out of both cities. Her work is noted for its visuality and commentary on the human emotional landscape, while her unusual movement choices and adventerous approach to performance have won her recognition from artists, audiences and critics across the aesthetic spectrum. She is inspired by science, social issues and the impact of one's surroundings on the individual. Her representations of sexual identity, and the experience of inhabiting the female body specifically, push beyond the conventional to give voice to the queer body, and are hallmarks of her performances.She holds a BFA in Acting from NYU's Tisch School of the Arts (with a double major in Women's Studies) and is also a singer, fifth-generation lasso spinner and former student of the flying trapeze. Her background in these areas as well as her work in nearly every facet of arts production as a producer, curator, production manager, and technician informs each aspect of her performance-making. As Administrator and Production Manager of New York's legendary Judson Church, she co-created, produced, and curated stART, a multi-disciplinary series integrating politics and arts. Her writing, including essays and poetry, have been featured on many live stages and print forums including The Movement Research Performance Journal  and the live-cast Culture Bodega.More about  Karen ShermanRESISTANCES
 counter-conduct, inter-disruptions, and comprising actsApril 15 & 16 | 10:00 am - 5:45 pm | H-763 | Henry F. Hall Building  1455 de Maisonneuve WestKeynote Speaker:  Dr. Ameila JonesPerformance: Time, Space, and Cultural “Value”April 15 | 7:00pm | EV 1.615, 1515 Ste. Catherine West 
Reception to follow in the FOFA GalleryResistances is this year’s conference organized by the PhD students in Concordia University’s Interdisciplinary Humanities and Communication Studies programs.Panels will examine various aspects of resistance, from counter- and sub-cultural movements under state ideologies to strategies for the migration of theory into praxis. Questions will be demanded of the power of mobilization: what is the relationship between the artwork and the crowd? How does the history of the labour movement implicitly privilege a Western perspective? Notions of place will also draw our concern: how does the history or the architecture of a place inform its culture? How do counter- and post-colonial histories intersect in site-specific action? The personal conflicts of love and trauma will be discussed – how does the structure of trauma (a multiplicity of suppressed voices held under the totalizing dominion of consciousness) parallel the political formation of subaltern movements? We will look at hope, failure, love and anger. How do these expressions of affects exceed the efforts of an organizing discourse?   For more information about Resistances  and  Conference Program.ART + RELIGIONApril 15-17, 2010 | Place des arts 5e salleThis symposium brings together eminent international specialists belonging to a variety of disciplines artists, art historians, curators, anthropologists, educators, historians, media scholars, philosophers, psychoanalysts,political analysts, religious scholars, social scientists, theologians to pursue the charting of theoretical points of contact between the worlds of contemporary art and religion.Click for the Conference Web SiteClick for the Conference Program© Concordia UniversityAbout the Centre
Working Groups
Events, lectures and conferences
PhD in Humanities
NewsConcordia University2009-2010Faculty of Arts and Science
            
                Faculty of Arts and Science
            SeptemberOctoberNovemberJanuaryFebruaryMarchAprilFall 2009
                
            
                
					
                    Winter 2010Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424CONCORDIA AUTHOR SERIES: RONALD RUDIN (HISTORY)VISITING LECTURE SERIES:  JOHN RODDEN, UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT AUSTINVISITING LECTURE SERIES:  FRED EVANS, DUQUESNE UNIVERSITYPERFORMANCE SERIES:  PETER SCHUMANN, BREAD & PUPPET THEATER COMPANYCONCORDIA AUTHOR SERIES:  TED MCCORMICK (HISTORY)PH.D. IN HUMANITIES INTERDISCIPLINARY DIALOGUES SERIESCOLLOQUIUM:  "HERITAGE, AUTHENTICITY, AND THE POLITICS OF RELIGIOUS DIFFERENCE" FELLOWS SERIES SEMINAR: MARIA JOSE A. DE ABREU, U. AMSTERDAMCISSC FACULTY ORIENTATION SESSIONCONCORDIA AUTHOR SERIES:  CSABA NIKOLENYI (POLITICAL SCIENCE)CONCORDIA AUTHOR SERIES: MICHEL DESPLAND (RELIGION)VISITING SPEAKERS SERIES:  MICHAEL DORLAND, CARLETON UNIVERSITYTHE CONCORDIA ENGLISH DEPARTMENT AND  CISSC VISITING SPEAKER SERIES PRESENT: KENNETH GOLDSMITHCONCORDIA AUTHORS SERIES: ERIN MANNING (STUDIO ART & CINEMA)HISTORY, MEMORY AND JEWISH IDENTITY WORKING GROUP PRESENTS : PROFESSOR CALVIN GOLDSCHEIDER (BROWN UNIVERSITY)VISITING SPEAKER SERIES: MARIE-LAURE RYAN, UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO PH.D. IN HUMANITIES INTERDISCIPLINARY DIALOGUE SERIES:FELLOWS SERIES SEMINAR: MONICA PATTERSON (UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN)VISITING SPEAKER SERIES: BRIAN ROTMAN (OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY)ONE-DAY COLLOQUIUM: HOW FUNDING BODIES HAVE SHAPED THE ARTS AND HUMANITIESRHETORIC AND POLITICAL AESTHETIC WORKING GROUP SEMINAR:CONCORDIA AUTHORS SERIES: JONATHAN SACHS (ENGLISH)CONCORDIA AUTHORS SERIES: CHRIS SALTER, DESIGN AND COMPUTATION ARTSTHE RACE, NATION AND CORPOREALITY WORKING GROUP: DR. GEORGE ELLIOTT CLARKE, UNIVERSITY OF TORONTOVISITING LECTURE SERIES: IAIN KERR AND PETIA MOROZOV, SPURSE COLLECTIVEPH.D. IN HUMANITIES INTERDISCIPLINARY DIALOGUE SERIES:  WHAT IS RESEARCH?ARTIST TALK IN COLLABORATION WITH STUDIO303'S EDGY WOMEN FESTIVAL PRESENT: KAREN SHERMANTHE HUMANITIES DOCTORAL PROGRAM IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE JOINT PH.D. IN COMMUNICATION ANNUAL STUDENT CONFERENCE THE FOURTH ANNUAL MAX AND IRIS STERN INTERNATIONAL SYMPOSIUM