http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/cissc/lectures-conferences/archives/2010-2011.htmlSEPTEMBER 20CISSC PRESENTS: JAMES C. SCOTT, YALE UNIVERSITYThe Art of Not Being Governed
 An Anarchist History of Upland Southeast AsiaSeptember 20, 2010 | 7:00 p.m. | H-763, Hall Building | 1455 de Maisonneuve W.Recognized worldwide as an eminent authority in Southeast Asian, peasant, and agrarian studies, Dr. Scott redefines our views on Asian politics, history, demographics, and even our fundamental ideas about what constitutes civilization, and challenges us with a radically different approach to history that presents events from the perspective of stateless peoples and redefines state-making as a form of "internal colonialism."  Dr. Scott's work on Zomia represents a new way to think of area studies that will be applicable to other runaway, fugitive, and marooned communities, be they Gypsies, Cossacks, tribes fleeing slave raiders, Marsh Arabs, or San-Bushman. The author of several books including Seeing Like a State, James C. Scott is Sterling Professor of Political Science, professor of anthropology, and coordinator of the Agrarian Studies Program, Yale University, and a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Science.Dr. Scott will also lead a seminar, "Anarchist Calisthenics" on Tuesday, Sept. 21 at 10 a.m. in H-1220, Hall Building.More information on The Art of Not Being GovernedSEPTEMBER 24CISSC PRESENTS: DOUGLAS CRIMP, UNIVERSITY OF ROCHESTERAndy Warhol Films the Most Beautiful Man in the World
Andy Warhol, 1965, 66 min., 16mmSeptember 24 | 1:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. | De Sève Cinema | 1400 de Maisonneuve Blvd. WestLecture incorporates screening of Paul SwanSupplemental Screening of Paul Swan in H-110 at 5 p.m.Free Admission to both screenings.Douglas Crimp is Fanny Knapp Allen Professor of Art History at University of Rochester where he helped to establish the program in Visual and Cultural Studies. Crimp co-edited October magazine between 1977 and 1990. An important art critic in the development of postmodern art theory, Crimp published On the Museum’s Ruins (MIT Press, 1993). He made crucial contributions to Queer Theory in extensive writing on art in the age of AIDS collected in Melancholia and Moralism: Essays on AIDS and Queer Politics  (MIT Press 2002).  One of his new book projects is on the films of Andy Warhol.More information on Douglas CrimpOCTOBER 22CISSC PRESENTS: ARTHUR KROKER, UNIVERSITY OF VICTORIAExits to the Posthuman Future: Bodies and PowerFriday, October 22 | 2:00 p.m. | Room LB-646 | J.W. McConnell BuildingArthur Kroker is Canada Research Chair in Technology, Culture and Theory and Professor of Political Science at the University of Victoria. Co-editor of CTheory and Director of the Pacific Centre for Technology and Culture, he is the author of numerous books on technology, culture and the body including The Possessed Individual, The Will to Technology and the Culture of Nihilism,  Spasm: Virtual Reality, Android Music and Electric Flesh, and Born Again Ideology. Most recently, he has co-edited with Marilouise Kroker, the major anthology Critical Digital Studies.More information on Dr. Arthur Kroker.NOVEMBER 18CISSC PRESENTS: DR. WENDY BROWN, UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEYCivilizational Delusions: >Secularism, Tolerance and EqualityNovember 18 | 7:00 p.m. | EV 2.260| Computer Science and Visual Arts Integrated Complex |1515 St. Catherine West (Corner of Guy)Wendy Brown is Heller Professor of Political Science at the University of California Berkeley. She is the acclaimed author of States of Injury(1995), Politics out of History (2001) and Regulating Aversion (2006).  Her most recent book, Walled States, Waning Sovereignty, has been released this fall.  Dr. Brown's lecture opens CRIDAQ's conference on Revealing Democracy:  Bill 94 and the Challenges of Religious Pluralism and Ethnocultural Diversity in Quebec, which is being held at Concordia University from November 18 to 20, 2010.This event is co-sponsored by Centre de Recherche Interdisciplinaire sur la Diversité au Québec CRIDAQGeneral AdmissionInformation:  514-987-3000, ext. 1609NOVEMBER 22CISSC PRESENTS: LAHRA SMITH, GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITYMulticulturalism, Federalism, and Women in Ethiopia November 22 | 3:30 p.m. | H-1220 | Hall Building, 1455 de Maisonneuve WestLahra Smith takes up the intersection of women’s rights and ethnocultural rights by analyzing the case of women in Ethiopia, where the 1995 federal constitution includes sweeping provisions for Ethiopian citizens as members of ethnic communities.  At the same time, the constitution includes exciting protections for women which were subsequently incorporated into a comprehensive revision of existing law in the Revised Family Code of 2000.  How do these two documents and the principles they enshrine-- rights for ethnic communities and rights for women-- reconcile what will surely arise as conflicts?  She argues that there are compelling examples of cultural traditions within ethnic communities that do a better job of protecting and supporting the rights of women, and she focuses on the example of the moral concept of wayyuu among the Arsi-Oromo in Bale, Ethiopia. This lecture is co-sponsored by the Department of Political Science.DR. LAHRA SMITH is a Political Scientist with a particular interest in African politics. She is Assistant Professor in the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, and during the fall 2010 semester, she is the Fulbright Visiting Research Chair in Ethnicity and Multicultural Citizenship at Queen’s University. Her research interests include citizenship in contemporary African states, civic education and the causes of localized communal conflict, as well as women’s rights in developing and democratizing states.FEBRUARY 16Humanities Ph.D. Program
INTERDISCIPLINARY DIALOGUES SERIES
Performance and Space Salon Feb. 16 | 5:00 p.m. | Mesa 14, 1425 Bishop StreetThe first session of the Interdisciplinary Dialogue series for 2010-11 will be a casual salon-style round table to generate dialogue between students, faculty and interested public to critically explore and discuss questions and issues surrounding the intersections of study for the Humanities Phd Students.The session will be facilitated by:RSVP: katianwithger@gmail.comMore information on Humanities Ph.D. ProgramMARCH 3CISSC PRESENTS: JACOB REMES, ACLS MELLON FELLOW, DUKE UNIVERSITYMRS. MARIGGI'S BALANCING ACT:
 URBAN DISASTERS AND THE NORTH AMERICAN PROGRESSIVE STATEMarch 3 | 4:00 p.m. | LB-646 | J.W. McConnell BuildingDr. Jacob Remes is a historian of Canadian and United States labor and working-class history, with a focus on urban disasters, working-class organizations, and migration. In this seminar, he uses the Salem, Mass., Fire of 1914, and the Halifax, N.S., Explosion of 1917 to explore the conflicts and ironies of Progressive Era relief and rescue and to discuss how workers and their families demanded assistance on their own terms. Currently, Dr. Remes is a post-doctoral fellow in Concordia University's Centre for Interdisciplinary Studies in Society and Culture. More information on Dr. Jacob RemesMARCH 11CISSC PRESENTS: LAUREN BERLANT, UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGOON THE DESIRE FOR THE POLITICALMarch 11 | 3:30 p.m. | LB 125 | J.A. de Sève CinemaMass politics is fundamentally affective, exuding intensities that reveal desires for visceral immediacy to shape all kinds of encounter with power, whether critical or adoring. Yet one strategy for entering the affective public of the political is to perform a withdrawal from the very conversationality, opinion, or talk that historically has been said to float the public’s encounter with itself. This talk offers a concept of ambient citizenship. It looks at some instances of contemporary art rooted in traditions of silent protest and noise politics whose aim is to remobilize and redirect the intensities that can bind a public affectively to the political. Participants in contemporary political life witness this reticent aesthetic all the time, in memorializing genres from self-immolation to the vigil:  what will interest us here are a wide variety of performances of withdrawal and what they can reveal about the state of popular politics and political desire in the contemporary United States.Prof. Berlant will also lead an advanced seminar, "Sensing the Historical Present" on March 11th at 10:30 a.m. in LB 646. Readings for the seminar which are not to be used for citation or distribution purposes are available.Click here to receive the Seminar Readings.More information on Lauren BerlantMARCH 31Humanities Ph.D. Annual Student ConferenceDIS/LOCATIONS:  INTERDISCIPLINARY PERSPECTIVES ON BEING OUT OF PLACEMarch 31st and April 1st, 2011The Concordia Humanities Doctoral Program located in the Centre for Interdisciplinary Studies in Society and Culture would like to invite you toDis/locations, the Humanities Annual Student Conference, which addresses "Being Out of Place." What is the law of the “proper” and how does it define location?  Over two event-packed days, we will consider “being out of place,” through performances and presentations that defy their “proper” sets of rules to redefine the meaning of the space in which they occur. All conference events are open to the public, and we invite all members of the Concordia community to attend.  Registration is required for the Roundtable Luncheon and for selected performances/presentations.  Please see CONFERENCE SCHEDULE for details.For further information, please contact: humanities.phd@gmail.comAPRIL 1CISSC PRESENTS: JOHANNA DRUCKER, UCLA, Breslauer Professor of Bibliography Studies, Department of Information StudiesDESIGNING THE MUSEUM OF WRITINGApril 1 | 5:00 p.m. | LB 125 | J.A. de Sève CinemaThe Museum of Writing is an online environment to support research, exhibits, and public knowledge about the history of written documents, technologies of writing production, and cultural studies of writing broadly understood. Designed as digital repository that serves as the online access to an analogue collection stored at the Senate House Library in London, the project has offered some interesting opportunities for thinking about information design -- architecture, metadata, date models etc. But it is also meant to support some innovations in digital scholarship driven by intellectual questions and research. One of these is the way we preserve the imprint of a collector and produce other interpretative filters into the information architecture. Another is a particular investigation of the transmission of alphabet compendia. Another will focus on WOFF, and its relation to various concepts of what a letterform is in terms of production. As a project conceived within an international collaboration, the Museum of Writing is meant to provide an opportunity to think about platforms for digital scholarship and the challenges these pose now. Given the ways that traditional notation and digital inscription are part of both the medium and the subject of the Museum, the project provides a way to think about materialities past and present through theoretical perspectives as well as historical and cultural ones.Prof. Drucker will also lead an advanced seminar, "Reading and/as Graphical Interface" on April 1 at 11 a.m. in H-763.  Click here to receive the Johanna Drucker Seminar ReadingsMore information on Johanna Drucker© Concordia UniversityAbout the Centre
Working Groups
Events, lectures and conferences
PhD in Humanities
NewsConcordia University2010-2011Faculty of Arts and Science
            
                Faculty of Arts and ScienceFall 2010
                
            
                
					
                    Winter 2011Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424