http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/cissc/lectures-conferences/archives/2011-2012.htmlSEPTEMBER 22, 2011CISSC, THE SCHOOL OF COMMUNITY AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS, AND THE DEPARTMENT OF POLITICAL SCIENCE PRESENTS:
 (in collaboration with the Canadian-Hungarian Democratic Charter)DR. GÁSPÁR MIKLÓS TAMÁS, Research Professsor at the Institute of Philosophy of the Hungarian Academy of SciencesTHE FAILURE OF LIBERAL DEMOCRACY IN EASTERN EUROPE - AND EVERYWHERE ELSESept. 22 | 6:30 p.m. | H-763 | 1455 de Maisonneuve WestGáspár Miklós Tamás is one of Hungary’s preeminent public intellectuals and social critics. His is a significant voice of the Hungarian democratic opposition. He co-founded in 1988 the Network of Free Initiatives, a dissident movement under the communist regime of Janos Kadar, and subsequently served as Member of Parliament between 1989 and 1994 under the banner of the Free Democratic Alliance. He is currently Research Professor at the Institute of Philosophy of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and lectures regularly in political philosophy and social theory in universities around the world. Professor Tamás is the author of ten books in Hungarian and several of his essays have appeared in English translation in publications such as The Times Literary Supplement, The Spectator, Boston Review, Public Affairs Quarterly and Socialist Register. Professor Tamás is travelling in North America through the month of September on a lecture tour.  Free admission.More information on The School of Community and Public Affairs, Department of Political ScienceSEPTEMBER 23CISSC PRESENTSCLAIRE CONNOLLY, CARDIFF UNIVERSITY
O'Brien Visiting Scholar, School of Canadian Irish Studies, Concordia UniversityJAMES CHANDLER, UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO
Barbara E. & Richard J. Franke Distinguished Service ProfessorLITERARY RECOVERY:  CONTEXTS, CODES, AND THE CASE OF MARIA EDGEWORTH Sept. 23 | 5:00 p.m. - 7:00 p.m.| LB 646 |J.W. McConnell Building, 1400 de Maisonneuve West, 6th floorLiterary studies is currently involved with a vigorous effort to reshape our sense of the cultural past.  The energy has come from a number of approaches and subfields:  race and gender studies, historicism, postcolonialism, ethnic studies, and, in Britain and Ireland, "four-nations” or “archipelagic” English.  Very often, new work aims to restore a literary reputation after its diminution or dislocation.  But if these encounters with the cultural past are to be serious and sustained, what is needed is both a reconstitution of contexts in which the works of the author in question were highly valued and a recuperation of the interpretative codes and forms of sensibility that once made such works legible. How can such acts of reconstitution and recuperation be achieved; how are they related to one another; and what are the consequences for the wider critical field?Professors Connolly and Chandler examine these questions via a consideration of the instance of the Anglo-Irish novelist Maria Edgeworth, whose reputation has risen markedly since the 1970s. Arguably the most important novelist writing in English in 1812, she taught both Jane Austen and Walter Scott how to shape their own powerful and distinctive contributions to modern fiction.  Yet her reputation receded as theirs rose to prominence.  What does it means to recover her for 21st-century readership? How can we recuperate the signal achievements and particular challenges of the novels?  This joint discussion of the case of Maria Edgeworth offers a fresh exploration of some of the most pressing problems facing literary history today.Read more ...  Concordia NOWMore information on Claire Connolly, James Chandler, The School of Canadian Irish StudiesSEPTEMBER 29CISSC  PRESENTS: ELIZABETH WILSON, EMORY UNIVERSITY, Department of Women's StudiesANOTHER NEUROLOGICAL SCENE:
PSYCHOANALYSIS, NEUROSCIENCE AND INTERDISCIPLINARITY ACROSS THE TWO CULTURES Sept. 29 | 5:00 p.m. - 7:00 p.m.| H-763 | Henry F. Hall Building, 1455 de Maisonneuve WestThis lecture will assess the recent turn to neuroscience in psychoanalytic theory.  This turn is part of a more general uptake of neurological data beyond the sciences: in the humanities, in the social sciences, and in public discourse.  There are a number of important political and methodological issues that such alliances raise: how can interdisciplinarity work across the so-called Two Cultures without establishing new, conservative monocultures?  Prof. Wilson argues for a relation between the neurosciences and psychoanalysis that is structured by incommensurability rather than consilience.Prof. Wilson will also lead a workshop, "Gut Feminism" on Sept. 30 in LB-1014 at 10:00 a.m.  This workshop enquires into biological data about depression, especially in relation to new generation antidepressant pharmaceuticals.  Special emphasis is given to data about the gut. What might feminism learn from biology?  The goal is to broaden the value of biological data for scholarship in the humanities and social sciences, and to expand the material profile through which feminists have analyzed depression.More information on Elizabeth Wilson.OCTOBER 28CISSC PRESENTS : JOHN GUILLORY, NEW YORK UNIVERSITY,  Silver Professor of EnglishTEACHING LITERATURE IN AN AGE OF MEDIA SATURATIONOct. 28 | 10:00 a.m.| LB-646 | 1400 de Maisonneuve Blvd. West, 6th floorJohn Guillory's research and teaching interests include Renaissance literature, philosophy, and political theory as well as the constellation of topics represented by his influential Cultural Capital:  the history of criticism, and the sociology of literary study, twentieth-century literary theory, and the canon debate.  He has been a leading thinker about the evolving position of literary studies and the academic profession in general within societies both past and present.In this workshop, John Guillory will build on the Lahey lecture, "The Origins of Close Reading:  I.A. Richards and the Neurophysiology of Reading," to be delivered Thursday, October 27 at 5 pm in the atrium of the Samuel Bronfman Building, 1590 Dr. Penfield, sponsored by the Department of English, as well as on his essay, "On the Genesis of the Media Concept"  Critical Inquiry 36.2 (Winter 2010) 321-362.Workshop readings:  How We Read   Close Reading  Hyper and Deep AttentionMore information on John GuilloryNOVEMBER 3CISSC PRESENTS: RICHARD GRUNEAU, SIMON FRASER UNIVERSITYMEGA-EVENTS, CONSUMPTION-BASED DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN POVERTY IN THE AGE OF NEO-LIBERAL GLOBALIZATIONNov. 3 | 6:00 p.m. | H-763 | 1455 de Maisonneuve West, 7th FloorOver the past thirty years the economic gap between the world’s richest and the  poorest nations has grown sharply and there has been an alarming and accelerating growth in the world’s barrios, favelas and slums.  Yet, some of the world’s fastest growing economies are now located in the Global South and in recent years many southern nations have campaigned aggressively to host international mega-events, such as Olympics and World’s Fairs, as part of their strategies for continued economic development. This talk explores the extent to which such events actually deliver the development that their supporters promise as well as who wins in this type of consumption based development strategy, and who loses.Prof. Gruneau will also lead a workshop, "Reported Deaths and Premature Burials:  Rethinking the Concept of Ideology in Contemporary Social Analysis" on Friday, Nov. 4 at 11:00 a.m. in H-1120. Over the past half-century many social and cultural analysts have declared the “death” or the lack of utility of the concept of ideology.  In the wake of the market triumphalism of the early 1990s, as well as challenges from theoretical movements associated with feminism, post-structuralism, and postmodernism, the concept of ideology seemed fully buried. But, reports of ideology’s demise were almost immediately challenged by a spate of key books during the 1990s written as conscious projects of retrieval.  This talk outlines a brief contemporary history of challenges to the concept of ideology and discusses how, in the last decade in particular, ideology has made a comeback as a critical concept in social analysis.Dr. Richard Gruneau is widely regarded as a pioneer in the development of interdisciplinary popular cultural studies in Canada. He teaches in the areas of media and popular culture, communications theory and history, and the political economy of communication.  His research projects include topics ranging from the critical analysis of news to the study of television sports production and the making of Canadian government sports policy.  His television series, The Canadian Game (Knowledge Network, 1989) was the first documentary television series to examine the place of hockey in Canadian popular culture. Prof. Gruneau was the originator and editor of a notable book series on Culture and Communication in Canada, (Garamond Press, 1990-2000).  His new book, Sport and the Critique of Modernity is scheduled for publication in 2012. Open to Public.  Admission Free.More information on Richard GruneauNOVEMBER 8CISSC PRESENTS: JENNIFER L. GAUTHIER, FULBRIGHT VISITING RESEARCH CHAIR IN NORTH AMERICAN SOCIETY AND CULTURESCREENING FIRST PEOPLES: A COMPARISON OF INDIGENOUS CINEMA IN CANADA AND THE UNITED STATESNov. 8 | 4:30 p.m. | LB 646 | J.W. McConnell Building, 6th Floor  | 1400 de Maisonneuve WestDr. Gauthier is an Associate Professor of Communication Studies at Randolph College in Virginia. Her research on Canadian cinema, cultural policy and global Indigenous media has been published in such journals as The American Review of Canadian Studies, The Canadian Journal of Film Studies,TOPIA: A Canadian Journal of Cultural Studies, The InternationalJournal of Cultural Studies and the Quarterly Review of Film Studies. She has contributed chapters to several cinema studies anthologies published in the United States, Canada, and Great Britain. For her Fulbright project she is conducting research for her book, Screening Indigeneity: The First Nations Films of the National Film Board 1939-2009.More information on Jennifer L. Gauthier    "Examining film and identity" - NOW, October 18, 2011.NOVEMBER 23CISSC, THE CONCORDIA INSTITUTE FOR CANADIAN JEWISH STUDIES, AND MCGILL-QUEEN'S UNIVERSITY PRESS PRESENTBook launch: FAILURE'S OPPOSITEListening to A.M. Klein
Edited by Norman Ravvin and Sherry SimonNov. 23 | 7:00 p.m. | EV Building, 11th Floor | 1515 St. Catherine West FAILURE'S OPPOSITE presents a fresh perspective on A.M. Klein's reception and legacy, exploring why he has remained a compelling figure for critics and readers. His experimentalism drew upon strong traditions and fluency in several languages-English, French, Yiddish and Hebrew-allowing him to develop a multilingual, modernist Jewish voice that is a touchstone for understanding Canada's multicultural identity. His struggle with the emotional and historical dimensions of diaspora is of considerable importance throughout his work and is investigated through the lenses of translation, voice, and his relationship to other Jewish writers. Contributors also re-evaluate Klein's connection to Montreal and the original ways in which he captures the atmosphere of his "jargoning city."  The book includes contributors from all around Canada who are new and established A.M. Klein scholars.The evening will feature readings from a chapbook of poems compiled and edited by Jason Camlot especially for this event.  The chapbook, entitled, THE MOUNTAIN: The A.M. Klein Poetry Reboot Project-features rewritings of Klein's iconic poem "The Mountain" by such poets as Elizabeth Bachinsky (Vancouver) Jon Paul Fiorentino (Montreal), Todd Swift (London, UK), Erin Moure (Montreal), Seymour Mayne (Ottawa) and at least a dozen other, rewriting Klein for poetic challenge and readerly fun.Attendance is free. Refreshments will be provided. Books will be available for purchase.More information Concordia Institute for Canadian Jewish Studies, Jason Camlot, Norman Ravvin, Sherry SimonJANUARY 20, 2012CISSC PRESENTS:LISA GITELMAN, New York University
 CRAIG DWORKIN, University of UtahBETWEEN BLANKNESS & ILLEGIBILITY:
Lisa Gitelman and Craig Dworkin in DialogueJanuary 20 | 4:00 p.m. | LB 125 | J.A. de Sève Cinema, 1440 de Maisonneuve W.CISSC presents a panel discussion on the materiality of paper and print featuring Lisa Gitelman and Craig Dworkin. Dr. Gitelman is a media historian whose research concerns American print culture, techniques of inscription, and the new media of yesterday and today. She is particularly concerned with tracing the patterns according to which new media become meaningful within and against the contexts of older media.  Dr. Dworkin is a professor of English whose research interests include 20th and 21st century literature and art, and pataphysics.  The discussion will be moderated by Darren Wershler, Concordia Department of English.All are welcome.  Admission Free.More information on Lisa Gitelman, Craig Dworkin, Darren WershlerFEBRUARY 16CISSC PRESENTS: TZACHI ZAMIR, The Hebrew University of JerusalemPORNOGRAPHY AND ACTING:
 Between Presentation and RepresentationFebruary 16 | 5:00 p.m. | H-763 | Henry F. Hall Building | 1455 de Maisonneuve WestDoes pornographic performance constitute acting?  Is pornography collapsing the distinction between presentation and representation?  Dr. Zamir will discuss the status of roles, identities and some counter-intuitive moral implications that flow from sexual acting in non-pornographic cinema and theater as well as in porn. Dr. Zamir's current research project revolves around philosophical dimensions of dramatic acting with particular interest in the ways whereby self-dramatization occurs (on stage or off it).  The project includes work on theatrical role-playing, parts of which can be read in the following journals: The Journal of Aesthetics and Art Criticism, Theatre Journal, Critical Inquiry and New Literary History.  He continues to think, teach and write about Shakespeare and philosophical dimensions that his plays explore.Dr. Zamir will also lead a workshop, "Unethical Acts" on Friday, Feb. 17 at 11:00 a.m. in LB 646.  The workshop will deal with role-identity instability in relation to conventional acting in cases in which the act of acting may be experienced as unethical.
Open to public. Admission free.More information on Tzachi ZamirMARCH 16, 2012CISSC PRESENTS: WILLIAM J. TURKEL,  University of Western OntarioFITTING AND FIXING:
 Investigating the Deep History of WorkmanshipMarch 16 | 4:00 p.m. | H-763 | Henry F. Hall Building | 1455 de Maisonneuve WestDavid Pye distinguished the 'workmanship of risk,' where there is always the possibility of spoiling a given job, from the 'workmanship of certainty,' where the outcome is predetermined through the use of jigs, templates or other machines. (A simple example is the difference between drawing a circle freehand and drawing one with a compass). Prof. Turkel uses Pye's distinction as the basis for a research and teaching project that combines traditional historical methodology with hands-on practices of making and hacking. In a small fabrication lab, colleagues, students and Turkel build and experiment with 3D printers, and explore desktop fabrication, physical computing, analog electronics and other technologies in order to better understand both historical and contemporary processes of making. What is at stake, as Richard Sennett recently argued, is the rediscovery of "ways of using tools, organizing bodily movements, [and] thinking about materials that remain alternative, viable proposals about how to conduct life with skill."Prof. Turkel will also lead a workshop, "Choosing a Hackable Platform" on March 15 at 4:00p.m. in LB 646. In this hands-on workshop participants will build a few very simple musical instruments that combine electronic, mechanical and computational elements. These are fun to play and play with, but the workshop setting will also be used for a more general exploration of the kinds of features that support or inhibit hacking. No prior experience necessary. To sign-up for the workshop, please contact Sharon FitchMore information on William TurkelMARCH 29, 2012SCREEN CULTURE RESEARCH GROUP presents:RITA RALEY, UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA - SANTA BARBARATHE WAYS WE READ AND WRITE NOW: Transient Displays and Social PracticesMarch 29 | 5:00 p.m. | H-767 | Henry F. Hall Bldg., 1455 de Maisonneuve WestThis talk addresses the diverse forms of textual media environments - beyond the desktop - focusing on mobile media and projected display. What are the different modalities of reader/user engagement, distraction, embodied apprehension, and liveness? How might these environments relate to social exchange, publics, and being-in-common? This talk will equally reflect upon the disciplinary implications of textual environments that are about transient display and process rather than the artifact.Rita Raley is Associate Professor of English at UCSB, with appointments in Film and Media Studies, Comparative Literature, and Global Studies. Her primary research interests are digital media and humanist inquiry, with an emphasis on cultural critique, artistic practices, and language. She is the author of *Tactical Media* (University of Minnesota Press, 2009) and numerous articles on such diverse topics as interventionist art, hacktivism, machine translation, text-based media arts installations, and locative media.This event is sponsored by the Mobile Media Lab, the Concordia University Research Chair in Communication Studies Fund, and the Centre for Interdisciplinary Studies in Society and Culture.For more information, contact Charles Acland at c.acland@concordia.caAPRIL 11, 2012ARTISTIC PRODUCTION WORKING GROUP presents,LISA ROBERTSON, CANADIAN/FRENCH POET/ESSAYISTRisking Rhythm:  How to BeginApril 11 | 6:00 p.m. | EV 6.735 | 1555 Ste. Catherine WestLisa Robertson lives in the Vienne region of France.  Her most recent books of poetry are Lisa Robertson's Magneta Soul Whip, selected by the New York Times as one of the 100 best books of 2010, R's Boat, shortlisted for The Believer 2011 Poetry award, and The Men:  a Lyric Book.  Coach House Books continues to reprint her influential Occasional Work and Seven Walks From the Office for Soft Architecture.  A new book of essays, Nilling, is just out from BookThug.APRIL 12-13, 2012FOOD STUDIES WORKING GROUP presents,FOOD STUDIES SYMPOSIUMEV 6.720 ( EV Building, SGW campus) | 1515 Ste-Catherine St. West, Montreal (metro Guy)Food and foodways continue to emerge as vital topics of scholarly research. This gathering offers Concordia students, faculty, and community members a chance to share thinking and methods, and discuss current issues related to food through a cross-disciplinary lens. Invited speakers includeAlison Blay-Palmer and Elizabeth Miller.All are welcome and participation is free.Please visit Food Studies for information on all of its activities.APRIL 12-13, 2012A CONFERENCE ON THE HUMANITIESGalerie A.B. (in the Belgo Building) | 372 Ste-Catherine Ouest, #313The Concordia University Humanities Doctoral Program located in the Centre for Interdisciplinary Studies in Society and Culture (CISSC) would like to invite you to eXhibitions, the Humanities Annual Student Conference, which this year focuses on the bridge/link/ground between the Humanities and the Fine Arts. The conference itself will be presented as an art exhibition, with workshops, roundtable discussions, and lectures taking place within a gallery space.Explorations in painting, collage, sculpture, performance, video, and sound, will be presented with along with papers on art and philosophy, roundtables on art activism and urban performance, and an ongoing open discussion and action campaign around the current student strike.Performances will take place on Friday, April 13th.  A vernissage will be held on Saturday, April 14th, from 15:00-17:00, followed by a night of music performances. All conference events are open to the public.For the schedule of events and further information, please visit:  http://exhibitionsconference.wordpress.comMAY 11, 2012SOUND STUDIES WORKING GROUP presents a workshop by,JONATHAN STERNE, MCGILL UNIVERSITYSAMPLING SPACE: A SIMPLE THEORY OF CONVOLUTION REVERBMAY 11 | 10:30 A.M. | FB 411, FAUBOURG TOWERThe CISSC Working Group on Sound Studies in the audiovisual media is happy to announce a workshop with Dr Jonathan Sterne on his work-in-progress: Sampling Space: A Simple Theory of Convolution Reverb. Dr Sterne is Associate Professor of History of Art and Communication Studies at McGill University. He is the author of The Audible Past: Cultural Origins of Sound Reproduction (Duke University Press, 2003), where he shows how early telephones, phonographs and radios marked a major shift in Western understandings and practices of sound, speech, hearing and deafness. He has published a wide range of articles that pose analogous questions for other media such as computers, the internet, television and Muzak. He has two new books coming out this summer: MP3: The Meaning of a Format considers the mp3 as a cultural, political and historical phenomenon; The Sound Studies Reader collects and comments upon classic work on sound in the human sciences.If you are interested in participating in the workshop, please contact Masha Salazkina for a copy of Dr Sterne's paper-in progress which will be discussed.Related links:© Concordia UniversityAbout the Centre
Working Groups
Events, lectures and conferences
PhD in Humanities
NewsConcordia University2011-2012Faculty of Arts and Science
            
                Faculty of Arts and ScienceConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424