http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/cissc/lectures-conferences/archives/2012-2013.htmlSEPTEMBER 13CISSC PRESENTS: ALISON WINTER
 Department of History, University of ChicagoBRIDEY MURPHY AND THE NEW AGE SCIENCESSept. 13 | 6:00 p.m. - 7:30 p.m.| H 763 | Henry F. Hall Building | 1455 de Maisonneuve WestIn 1952 an extraordinary experiment took place in a small Colorado town. It led to one of the most intense public debates in U.S. history about the self, the mind, and survival beyond death. The trial was carried out not by a scientist in a laboratory, but by local businessman Morey Bernstein in the home of housewife Virginia Tighe. Under the influence of hypnosis, Tighe apparently regressed back to her childhood – and then beyond, to another life altogether. She introduced herself by another name, Bridey Murphy. She then began to describe herself as a respectable protestant housewife living in nineteenth-century Ireland. When Tighe’s story became public, it provoked enormous and lasting controversy. Ordinary Americans were inspired to a renewed confidence in their right and competence to explore extraordinary scientific questions. This lecture reconstructs the Bridey affair and will use it to develop a broader argument about experimental explorations of self, mind, and soul in postwar America.OCTOBER 18CISSC PRESENTS:
 BYRON KIM
 Contemporary Artist who lives and works in Brooklyn, New York.DAVID HINTON
Poet and translator of ancient Chinese poetry and philosophy with a special interest in deep ecology and environmental thought.THE COSMOLOGY OF DOUBT
 Oct. 18| 6:00 p.m. | SB Atrium | 1590 Doctor PenfieldOver the course of his career, Byron Kim has been working at the intersections of abstract color field painting and conceptual art to investigate the fundamental categories of perception, including color, light and paint itself. He has exhibited widely in the United States and internationally. He has work in public collections including the Art Institute of Chicago, the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, the Whitney Museum and the National Gallery of Art.David Hinton’s many translations of classical Chinese poetry have earned wide acclaim for creating compelling contemporary poems that convey the actual texture and density of the originals. He is also the first translator in over a century to translate the four seminal masterworks of Chinese philosophy: Tao Te Ching, Chuang Tzu, Analects, Mencius. He has been awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship, numerous fellowships from the National Endowment for the Arts and the National Endowment for the Humanities, and both of the major awards given for poetry translation in the United States: the Landon Translation Award, from the Academy of American Poets, and the PEN Translation Award, from the PEN American Center. He has a new book of essays out called Hunger Mountain: A Field Guide to Mind and Landscape.On October 19th at 10:00 a.m. in LB 646, David Hinton and Byron Kim will give a workshop on translation and representation in which Hinton will demonstrate and discuss his translation process and Kim will talk about paint and colour.More information on Bryon Kim and  David HintonOCTOBER 29CISSC PRESENTS: ALLEN S. WEISS
 Departments of Performance Studies & Cinema Studies
 Tisch School of the Arts, New York University Ryōan-ji, Ryoanji, Where R = Ryoanji:
 ON THE LIMITS OF REPRESENTATION IN JOHN CAGEOct. 29 | 6:00 p.m. | H-763 | Henry F. Hall Building | 1455 de Maisonneuve WestJohn Cage was an American avant-garde composer whose inventive compositions and unorthodox ideas profoundly influenced mid-20th-century music.  Cage created two works inspired by the famed Zen garden Ryōan-ji:  a series of drawings entitled Where R = Ryoanji and a series of compositions called Ryoanji. These works are fascinating, insofar as they examine the mimetic relations between sound and image, and thus touch upon the limits of representation. This talk will examine the garden in detail, so as to provide the iconographic background for a discussion of Cage’s work. Prof. Weiss will also lead a seminar, Métaphysique de la miette [The Metaphysics of Crumbs] on Tues., Oct. 30 at 10:00 a.m. in LB-646.Allen S. Weiss teaches in the Departments of Performance Studies and Cinema Studies at New York University.  As he says of himself, "I was born in January and my deity is Janus, the two-faced god: I live in two countries, speak two languages, have two PhDs (Philosophy and Cinema Studies), write theory and fiction, produce radiophonic works and marionette theater... I firmly believe that no single field of knowledge is sufficient for appreciating any given artwork, and thus have a firm belief in the merits of interdisciplinarity, such that my interests, scholarly and existential, range from feast and folly to films and fiction, puppets and performance to philosophy and phantasms."More information on John Cage;   Allen S. WeissNOVEMBER 9CISSC WORKING GROUP EARLY MODERN PROJECTS PRESENTS:NICHOLAS S. POPPER, The College of William and Mary"Scholar, Sailor, Courtier, Spy:
The Intellectural Context for Elizabethan Expansion"Nov. 9 | 1:00 p.m. - 3:00 p.m.| H-1220 | Hall Building, 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W.Dr. Popper is author of: Walter Ralegh's History of the World and the Historical Culture of the Late Renaissance (University of Chicago Press, 2012).NOVEMBER 16, 2012CISSC PRESENTS: CHARLES R. BATSON, Union College, USAMEN IN TIGHTS:
 THE CONSTRUCTION AND PERFORMANCE OF MASCULINITY IN EARLY TWENTIETH CENTURY DANCE THEATRENov. 16 | 2:00 p.m. | LB 646 |J.W. McConnell Building | 1400 de Maisonneuve Blvd. WestThe 1909 arrival of Serge de Diaghilev's Ballets Russes in Paris marked the beginning of two decades of collaboration among littérateurs, painters, musicians, and choreographers, many not native to France. These collaborations were integral to the formation of modernism and avant-gardist aesthetics. In his book, "Dance, Desire, and Anxiety in Early Twentieth-Century French Theatre" (Ashgate, 2005), Dr. Batson explored the   performances of the celebrated Russians and equally innovative but less-known Ballets Suédois. In his talk, he shows how bodies in performance, the site where anxieties, drives, and desires of the French public were worked out, significantly influenced the direction of much artistic expression in the twentieth century and subsequent thought about it.   More information on Charles R. BatsonFEBRUARY 12CISSC PRESENTS: MARK SALBER PHILLIPS, Department of History, Carleton UniversityON HISTORICAL DISTANCEFebruary 12 | 4:00 p.m. | S-LB 646 | 1400 de Maisonneuve Blvd. WestConceptions of distance are foundational to historical thought, but Mark Salber Phillips gives the idea new subtlety and meaning. He argues that distance is a matter not just of time and space but also of form, affect, ideology, and understanding. In this exceptionally wide-ranging study, Phillips examines Renaissance, Enlightenment, and contemporary histories, as well as a broad spectrum of historical genres—including local history, literary history, counter-factual fiction, history painting, and museology."On Historical Distance" is a fascinating and very important book that should be read by all historians. Beautifully written in elegant, economical and engaging prose, the book wears its considerable learning very lightly. A deeply original, challenging and thought-provoking study of the evolving history of history by one of our leading historians of historiography, this book should provoke a lively debate among historians and should be assigned as essential reading for classes on historical methods and historiography.”—John Marshall, John Hopkins UniversityMark Salber Phillips is professor of history at Carleton University. Ottawa. He is the author of Society and Sentiment: Genres of Historical Thought in Britain, 1740–1820, as well as studies on the Italian Renaissance and on the concept of tradition.All are welcome. Admission is free.FEBRUARY 27CISSC WORKING GROUP CURATORIAL THEORY AND PRACTICEWORKSHOP WITH CURATOR, LIZ PARK
Co-sponsored by CERVInvisible Violence 
Feb. 27 | 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. | LB 1029.01 | 1400 de Maisonneuve WestInvisible Violence brings together the work of four artists—Rebecca Belmore, Ken Gonzales-Day, Francisco-Fernando Granados, and Louise Noguchi—who use photography as a point of reference for histories of violence that inform a contemporary politics of representation. Designed to incite thoughtful conversations about the representation of violence and its politicization today, this multi-part project consists of: publication of the artists’ work as a sequence of 5”x7” cards; a series of discursive events conceived as points of distribution for the publication; and a web hub that archives reflections on the discussions that take place at each event.This event is free and open to the public but space is limited, so please RSVP: cerev@alcor.concordia.caPublication distributed free at the event.More information on Liz Park and Cerev.MARCH 8CISSC WORKING GROUP EARLY MODERN PROJECTS PRESENTS STEVEN NADLER, William H. Hay II Professor of Philosophy, University of Wisconsin-MadisonThis event is co-sponsored by the Department of Philosophy and presented in cooperation with the Department of Political Science."Spinoza, Maimonides, and Prophecy"March 8 | 10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. | H-1220 | Hall Building, 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. WestSteven Nadler is author, recently, of A Book Forged in Hell: Spinoza's Scandalous Treatise and the Birth of the Secular Age (Princeton University Press, 2011); Occasionalism: Causation Among the Cartesians (Oxford University Press, 2011); The Best of All Possible Worlds: A Story of Philosophers, God, and Evil in the Age of Reason (Princeton University Press, 2010); and the forthcoming The Philosopher, the Priest, and the Painter: A Portrait of Descartes (Princeton University Press, 2013).Attendees are asked to read Dr. Nadler's paper in advance of the talk since the author will be making a brief presentation rather than give a long reading. More information on Steven NadlerMARCH 22CISSC LECTURE SERIES: JANE BENNETT, JOHN HOPKINS UNIVERSITY"Impersonal Sympathy" 
March 22 | 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m.| S-MB 2.210 | John Molson School of Business, 1450 Guy StreetThe alchemist-physician Paracelsus (1493-1541) was both a materialist and a Christian: he believed that a meticulous attentiveness to the physical attributes of, say, a plant would provide to man hints about the uses for which God intended it. Is there a way to keep Paracelsus's exquisite attunement to the sensuous specificities of bodies, but lose or loosen his theology, anthropocentrism, organicism? Using Walt Whitman's invocations of "sympathy" in Leaves of Grass (1891-1892), Jane Bennett theorizes sympathy -- the presence of affecting affinities between bodies -- within the context of recent attempts to articulate a distinctively material form of agency or efficacy.Dr. Bennett will also lead a workshop, "New Materialisms and Its Critics"on Thurs., Mar. 21 from 4pm - 6pm in S-EV 6.720. Admission is free.  Open to the public.More information on Jane Bennett MARCH 26CISSC AND THE SCHOOL OF CANADIAN IRISH STUDIES PRESENTSSEAN KENNEDY, Saint Mary's University, Halifax, Nova ScotiaBECKETT'S BOWLERS
MAR. 26 | 4:00 P.M. | RM 1001.01 | HENRY F. HALL BUILDINGSean Kennedy is Associate Professor of English and Coordinator of Irish Studies at Saint Mary's University, Halifax, Nova Scotia. He has written numerous articles on Beckett, and is founder of the Queering Ireland conference association. He has edited the new Faber edition of Beckett's novel Mercier and Camier as well as Beckett and Ireland (Cambridge University Press, 2010), co-edited Samuel Beckett: History, Memory, Archive (Palgrave 2009), and edited the "Queering Ireland" special issue of The Canadian Journal of Irish Studies. His Beckett and Politics is forthcoming from Cambridge University Press.APRIL 19CISSC WORKING GROUP QUALITATIVE RESEARCH PRESENTS:DR. PATRICIA LEAVY, Independent Scholar and NovelistTransdisciplinary and Arts-Based Research:
 Building Research in New Shapes to Meet New DemandsApril 19 | 9:00 a.m. - 10:30 a.m. | EV 2.645In this interactive presentation, Dr. Leavy will explore why and how researchers are crossing disciplinary borders in order to build research in new shapes. She will provide an overview and discussion of transdisciplinary research, followed by a review of arts-based research as one methodological genre in which we can enact transdisciplinarity. Topics covered will include: the need for transdisciplinarity to address problems of import, meet ethical demands and make research publicly accessible; how transdisciplinarity differs from other approaches to research; the major methodological principles of transdisciplinary research design; presenting and distributing research findings; evaluation criteria and challenges of doing this work.Patricia Leavy is an independent scholar and novelist, formerly associate professor and chairperson of the Sociology & Criminology Dept. and the founding director of the Gender Studies Program at Stonehill College in Massachusetts. She has published more than a dozen books including the nonfiction books Fiction as Research Practice (Left Coast Press, 2013); Essentials of Transdisciplinary Research (Left Coast Press, 2011); and Method Meets Art (Guilford Press, 2009) as well as the research-informed novels American Circumstance (Sense Publishers, June 2013) and Low-Fat Love (Sense Publishers, 2011). She is the editor for four book series: Understanding Qualitative Research (Oxford University Press); Social Fictions (Sense Publishers);Teaching Gender (Sense Publishers); and Teaching Race & Ethnicity (Sense Publishers). She was named the Sociologist of the Year 2010 by the New England Sociological Association.Admission is free.  Open to the public.   For additional information, please contact:  Shannon HebblethwaiteMore information on  Patricia LeavyAPRIL 26 - 27PRESSING [AGAINST] METHODSAN INTERDISCIPLINARY CONFERENCE ORGANIZED BY HUMANITIES PH.D. STUDENT ASSOCIATIONAPRIL 26-27 | 10AM-8PM | S-MB 2.130 | 1450 GUY STREETEmail:  humanities.phd@gmail.comWeb:  pressingagainstmethodsconference.wordpress.com 
© Image from "Byzantine Sympathy" by Adrian Gorea© Concordia UniversityAbout the Centre
Working Groups
Events, lectures and conferences
PhD in Humanities
NewsConcordia University2012-2013Faculty of Arts and Science
            
                Faculty of Arts and ScienceConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424