http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/phd/admissions.htmlThe JMSB PhD Admissions Committee reviews every application on an individual basis. The Committee looks for students with real-world work experience, strong academic credentials, clear career objectives, strong intellectual ability and leadership potential, superior interpersonal and communication skills, motivation, maturity, and a commitment to excellence. Additional criteria, such as a record of active community involvement (although not required), may also be taken into consideration.

The selection process is competitive and thorough and candidates are encouraged to apply as early as possible to the admission cycle of their choice.Please take note that we will no longer be accepting applications for Winter 2016.International Applicants

Canadian Citizens and Permanent Residents
Master’s degree in any discipline
    Students will be accepted only for full-time study. Applicants must select their area of specialization from: Accountancy, Finance, Management, Marketing or Supply Chain and Business Technology Management, at the time of application. Enrolment in the program is strictly limited.
Meritorious students enrolled in the Master of Science programs at the John Molson School of Business who have completed all program requirements except for the thesis may apply for permission to proceed directly to doctoral studies in the same discipline without submitting a master’s thesis. These students are expected to meet the same PhD program requirements as all other students.


*Prerequisite course information
The minimum number of credits a student must take will be determined upon acceptance to the program. Students without a formal academic background in business administration will be required to take up to five 3-credit courses, usually at the MBA or MSc level, from among the following disciplines: business economics, organizational behaviour, supply chain and business technology management, marketing, finance, business policy and strategy, accountancy and control. Up to two of these courses may be in the student’s intended area of PhD specialization. Students may also be required to take Applied Linear Statistical Models and Multivariate Data Analysis depending on previous studies.After reviewing the Admission Requirements the following items must be submitted before the application deadline:To apply for admission you will need to follow the steps in the guide for the online application process. This how-to guide will lead you through the online application process.Please note:To start or continue an application, visit this page.Provide the following information:Provide your name, date of birth, first language, email address and other details. Please ensure that all information is accurate and coincides with all your official supporting documents. The email address you provide here will be the one we use to communicate with you throughout the admissions process.You may specify a different mailing address from the one you have listed as your home address. You may change this information at a later date through the MyConcordia Portal.In this section you also have the option of specifying if you wish to apply to one of Concordia’s specialized colleges, schools or institutes.If you need to submit required documents or transcripts, we encourage you to attach them now. However, you may add documents after the application has been submitted through the Application Centre in the MyConcordia Portal.Application Fee: To finalize your application, you need to agree to our terms and conditions, and pay a non-refundable application fee ($100 CAD) by credit card or debit card. Please note: we accept the following credit cards: Visa, MasterCard, American Express, Discover, and the following debit cards: Scotiabank, Bank of Montreal, Royal Bank or TD Canada Trust.If you do not have access to a valid credit card, you may request a PDF of the application form by emailing us at study@concordia.ca. Please note that a PDF application takes longer to process.Once you submit your online application, you will receive a confirmation email that prompts you to create a username and password for the MyConcordia Portal. This email will include an eight digit student ID number that you will use throughout your studies at Concordia.  If you did not receive a confirmation email, check your junk mail folder. If it’s not there either, call at 514-848-2424, extension 2668 and request that we mail you your student ID number. If you have any technical difficulties with your online application please contact the Instructional & Information Technology Services (IITS) Helpline.You may check the status of your application or upload missing documents on the MyConcordia portal.Once you’ve received your letter of acceptance, you should visit our new student pages and prepare for your new career as a grad student!International students: Please visit the International students’ pages for important information including study permits and living in Montreal.Attend an information sessionContact usDownload program brochure© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityAdmissionsJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            Get startedCheck application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Fast Track Program
                
            
                
					
                    Application process
                
            
                
					1
                    Start your application 
                
            
                
					2
                    Biographical
                
            
                
					3
                    Address/Telephone
                
            
                
					4
                    Programs
                
            
                
					5
                    Attach documents
                
            
                
					6
                    Finalize your application
                
            
                
					7
                    After you submitConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424