http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2016/07/13/age-3-0-interactive-trade-fair-the-creative-side-of-growing-older.htmlVersion française
Right now, Canada has more people over the age of 65 than under the age of 15, and in 40 years, seniors will make up one quarter of the country’s population.Terms like "silver tsunami" alongside headlines like "Baby boom to ageing gloom" indicate the negative light that is often cast onto this demographic shift. However, not everyone views our ageing population this way. Instead, many are imagining the creative potential of such a population.On August 25, Concordia will host Age 3.0, a fair to explore the multiple intersections of innovation, the creative economy, emerging technologies and ageing.The event is co-organized by the Ageing + Communication + Technologies (ACT) Project, a research group directed by communication studies professor Kim Sawchuk, and Communautique, a hub dedicated to learning, collaboration, research and experimentation in social and technological innovation.The event will also include participation from local businesses and community organizations and the purpose of the day is to provide a space for conversations about creative ways people are thinking about growing older.
 
Age 3.0 is open to academics, businesses, students and the general public alike. It will bring together researchers working on the topic of ageing from fields such as architecture, communication studies, psychology, education and fine arts to speak on panels about the ways university research can foster creative and complex approaches to ageing processes that challenge normative or stereotypical understandings of later life. A poster session will showcase the projects of graduate students from around the world.Throughout the day, Concordia's Black Box theatre will feature lively community art interventions created by seniors organizations through collaborative research, and will feature groups and projects such as Respecting Elders: Communities Against Abuse (RECAA), the St-Henri Art Hive, The Yellow Door and the Atwater Library and Computer Centre. 
 
Live performances, knit-ins and multimedia presentations will occupy the Black Box theatre space (EV Building – S3.845) and visitors will be invited to interact with the installations. The ground floor of Concordia’s Engineering, Computer Science and Visual Arts Integrated Complex (EV Building) will be home to kiosks hosted by companies and research groups working to bring ageing to the forefront of public, commercial and academic discourses.
 Age 3.0 takes place on August 25 from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the atrium of the EV Building at 1515 Saint Catherine St. W. The event is free and open to the public. For more information, visit the Age 3.0 website.Registration and admission to Age 3.0 are free. Please register in advance for the event online. Note: registration will also be available on site.The organizers have also extended their deadline for the call for posters. Students can submit their abstract by July 25.Find out more about Concordia's Department of Communication Studies. Banner by Eddy Klaus (via Unsplash.)  
        Kim Sawchuk: 'There’s a lot of fascinating research happening on the ground'
    
        Never too old to become a video game maker
    
        Intergenerational activism
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityAge 3.0: the creative side of growing olderNews
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsLatest storiesMost popularOPINION: Big Pharma’s troubles are good news for innovationConcordia receives funding for 5 Canada Research ChairsThe fight against fake newsConcordia receives $2 million to advance smart-grid technology‘Student success is more gratifying than any prize’13 essential tips for exam successTo nap or not to nap? Sleep tips for ConcordiansJason Camlot wins the Donald Gray Prize for best Victorian Studies essay‘We are conducting research in a living lab’What's it like to meet  the Oracle of Omaha?Find an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424