http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/executive-education/custom-solutions/approach.htmlThe John Molson Executive Centre offers high-impact custom solutions for organizations. Our participants’ organizations benefit from a next generation experience which helps set them apart from the rest.A custom solution is a powerful investment. Our team will guide you through the process. Follow these five easy steps to get your hands on the finest tailored solutions:1. First meeting2. Measure for fit3. Personalize solution4. Deliver solution5. Reflection Meet with your advisor; we will come to your office or welcome you at our state-of-the-art LEED-certified building.Our team is here to listen to your needs.  We can also offer a complete learning and development needs assessment to help you refine the best use of your training budget.  At this stage, your JMEC consultant will assess your organization’s learning needs to make your custom solution fit like a glove.It’s important to maintain open communication at all stages of program customization. By asking questions and providing feedback, you can assure the solution will meet the needs of your organization.  “Every system is perfectly designed to achieve exactly the results it gets.” Don Berwick, MD MPP The beauty of the custom solution is that you can add personal touches to make your program unique. This can have a big impact and ensure that your program creates value for your organization.Time and location
 Whether it’s at Concordia, your office, online or any other location you choose (be creative!), flexibility is key when it comes to our training. Even the time and day of the week is up to you.   Get to work
 We’ll get you to start flexing your brainpower with some pre-program preparation work (exercises, case studies or articles) so you’ll be prepped and ready for the group discussions to come.Content with context
 From business cases to team exercises, we deliver your personalized curriculum that’s timely, relevant and geared towards your business and organizational objectives. How did we do?
 Following your program, we compile and provide you with participants’ feedback. Detailed reports also include a program summary, any additional needs that have been identified, and specific recommendations regarding how to transfer the newly- acquired knowledge and skills to your workplace.  Phone: 514-848-3960
 Toll-free: 1-866-333-2271
 Email: jmec@concordia.ca© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityTailoring yourcustom solutionsJohn Molson Executive Centre
            
                John Molson Executive Centre
            Step 1
: The first meetingStep 2
: Measure for fitStep 3
: Personalize solutionStep 4
: Delivery stageStep 5
: Reflection
Contact us today to create your development program.Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424