http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/education/programs/undergraduate/ba-early-childhood-elementary-education-specialization.htmlOur Department offers one of Canada's finest undergraduate teacher certification programs, a 4-year BA, Specialization in ECEE that leads to permanent certification to teach in Quebec schools. Our program is renowned for its small classes and individual attention, the number and quality of carefully supervised internship placements in schools (beginning in the first year), the depth and variety of its course offerings, and the quality of instruction. Entrance into this program is highly competitive.Download the Application KitShape the future. Experience the magic and mystery of the world through the eyes of a child. As an educator, you’ll nurture children and inspire them to explore their surroundings. A BA in Early Childhood and Elementary Education gives you an educational foundation for teaching children aged two to 12.In a curriculum that combines theory and fieldwork, you’ll have the opportunity to observe experienced teachers and teach classes as a student teacher. You’ll follow a core education curriculum and take electives in the teaching of values, second languages and human, social and natural sciences. You’ll also:Our students graduate ready to enter Quebec classrooms, and are eligible for certification from the Ministère de l'Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport.The Department of Education offers one of Canada's finest undergraduate teacher certification programs, a 4-year BA, Specialization in ECEE that leads to permanent certification to teach in Quebec schools. This program is designed for students wishing to teach preschool through Grade 6. The Bachelor of Arts degree with a Specialization in ECEE takes a minimum of four years (120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background.Concentration
Program structureThe program requires 96 credits for the Specialization programme plus 24 elective credits. The 96 credits involve a stimulating and well-balanced group of selections from three areas: theory courses, method courses, and internships.The internships will be undertaken in preschool, kindergarten, primary and elementary level classes. The program has a strong emphasis on child development. We believe that it is important to know how children grow and develop in order to better meet their needs. To facilitate this, the internships progress from preschool to higher elementary placements. See full degree requirements in the Undergraduate Course Calendar.No specific courses are required beyond a DECApplicants must complete a general online application to Concordia University as well as an additional ECEE application form to be returned completed to the Department of Education by the general application deadline: March 1.Minimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.If required, TOEFL iBT min. score of 90 or IELTS min. score of 7.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
 The programme requires 96 credits for the Specialization programme plus 24 elective credits. The 96 credits involve a stimulating and well-balanced group of selections from three areas: theory courses, method courses, and internships. The internships will be undertaken in preschool, kindergarten, primary and elementary level classes. The programme has a strong emphasis on child development. We believe that it is important to know how children grow and develop in order to better meet their needs. To facilitate this, the internships progress from preschool to higher elementary placements. Sample classesRead all course descriptions in the Undergraduate Calendar.Graduates are prepared to take on challenging roles as educators and administrators in Quebec schools or pursue graduate studies in education, child studies, psychology or social work.
The Department has several specialized facilities that support student engagement in the practical application of their studies. Computers are integrated into all aspects of student life at the graduate and undergraduate levels and every seminar room is designed to support computer use by faculty members and students alike.Learn more about student resources and facilities.As of September 2008, all students enrolling in the B.A. Specialization in Early Childhood and Elementary Education must demonstrate sufficient proficiency in written English before completing their program of studies in order to be recommended for certification. As well, students must satisfy any other language requirement set by the university, such as the University Writing Test.Students are required to pass the Language Proficiency Test in Written English.Students are required to take the Test during their first semester. The Test will be administered during the Fall examination period each December. Students who do not meet the standard will be required to sit the Test again the following December. Students who do not meet the standard in this first try will be well advised to include among their electives one or more courses in English Composition or Grammar so as to be better prepared to write the Test a second time.Students will be advised of the date, time and place for the Test via e-mail. For ECEE students, the e-mail address on FirstClass will be used. Information about the Test will be sent in mid November. It is your responsibility to verify your e-mail in order to receive this information.Graduates are prepared to take on challenging roles as educators and administrators in Quebec schools or pursue graduate studies in education, child studies, psychology or social work.The Department has several specialized facilities that support student engagement in the practical application of their studies. The Observation Nursery School plays an integral role in three of the teacher training courses in the Early Childhood and Elementary Education program. Computers are integrated into all aspects of student life at the graduate and undergraduate levels and every seminar room is designed to support computer use by faculty members and students alike. Students also benefit from the resources and support of the Concordia E.C.E.EE Association.Learn more about student resources & facilities.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityEarly Childhood & Elementary Education (BA)Department of Education
            
                Department of Education
            Join the conversationProgram options & degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    After your degree
                
            
                
					
                    Student resources and facilities
                
            
                
					
                    Language proficiency in written English (Test)
                
            
                
					
                    After your degree
                
            
                
					
                    Student resources & facilitiesWhy study Early Childhood and Elementary Education?Program detailsBachelor of Arts (BA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Cegep StudentsAdditional RequirementsApplication instructionsMinimum Cut-off Averages