http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/events/beyond-disciplines.htmlAn ongoing series of public events designed to encourage discussion that spans the disciplines of Concordia’s Faculty of Arts and Science.These events examine major questions of the day, from a variety of viewpoints.
What role does research play outside the walls of the university? What is the value of community, and how do we learn from and with our community partners? Join us as we discuss processes that promote mutuality in learning, and we explore the role of research out in the ‘real world’. Held in collaboration with the Office of Community Engagement. For a full list of participants, visit the event page here. Free and open to the public. Space is limited, RSVP required RSVP.fas@concordia.caHow do we use our senses in everyday life? How do the differently abled experience the sensory world? Join us for an evening of immersive sensory exploration and discussion that will challenge the way you think of your senses. Held in collaboration with the Centre for Sensory Studies.Advances in genome research are making it easier than ever to edit DNA. CRISPR technology (Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats) now allows virtually anyone to re-write genetic code. While this technology has enormous scientific potential, ethical questions persist. How far are we prepared to go when it comes to editing genes?Every researcher has at least one great story to tell about something that happened during the process of research and discovery. And storytelling and narrative structures are also integral to the way research is pursued and made meaningful to experts and the wider community. This event brings together researchers from across the Faculty of Arts and Science to share their real life stories of research adventure, and to reflect upon how storytelling is integral to work they pursue.What is the future of diversity and how does it shape the research we do? From the perspective of Indigenous, Post-Colonial, Feminist or Critical Disability Studies, diversity is a concept that may inform our research and influence our lives. Join us to examine how diversity is understood, studied and explored across the disciplines.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityBeyond DisciplinesMix it up, experiment boldly, and go beyond disciplines…Faculty of Arts and Science
            
                Faculty of Arts and Science
            Season 2Season 1Mark your calendars for the next Beyond Disciplines on December 1!Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424