http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2013/04/08/bixi-comes-to-loyola.htmlConcordia students, faculty and staff will soon be able to use the popular Bixi bicycle share service on the Loyola Campus. On March 19, Bixi announced its expansion plans for the 2013 season. To the delight of the Concordia community, a 23-bicycle station has been added at the corner of Belmore Avenue and Sherbrooke Street. 

“This is something that we have been pushing with the borough, the city, and Bixi management for years,” said Bram Freedman, vice-president, Institutional Relations and Secretary-General. “We are extremely pleased that our efforts have been successful and that the Concordia community has an additional healthy, environmentally responsible mode of transportation available to them.”
The entire 6.5-kilometre distance between the Sir George Williams and Loyola campuses is served by a dedicated bicycle path.

Concordia group discount for Bixi memberships
 This year, Bixi is giving Concordians a corporate discount of 25 per cent off the regular $80 one-year membership, reducing the price to $60.50.

To take advantage of the discount, present yourself before the end-of-day Friday, April 12, to the Environmental Health and Safety Office with a CASH payment of $60.50 for the annual fee. The order will be placed on Monday, April 15. Participants will be contacted thereafter with information to activate their accounts.

The Environmental Health and Safety Office is located on the 11th floor of the Guy-Metro (GM) Building (1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd W., Sir George Williams Campus).

Please direct all questions to allego@concordia.ca.

Related links:
•   Bixi Montreal
•   Vélo Québec
•   Bixi group discount page (Please note that our discount is 25 per cent and not 20 per cent as noted on the website)



 Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityBixi comes to LoyolaConcordia Center for Composites (CONCOM)
            
                Concordia Center for Composites (CONCOM)
            Related TopicsFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424