http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2014/06/11/bukowski-recognized-accolades.htmlWilliam Bukowski, professor in the Department of Psychology and director of the Centre for Research in Human Development, has been awarded the John P. Hill Memorial Award by the Society for Research on Adolescents at their biannual meeting held in Austin, Tex., in March. The award recognizes an individual whose overall program of work has had a significant impact on our understanding of development and behaviour during the second decade of the lifespan. Bukowski joins a list of distinguished recipients, including the first, Erik Erikson, perhaps most famous for coining the term “identity crisis.”Ayaz Naseem has been appointed as the first Georg Arnhold Research Professor on Education for Sustainable Peace at Georg Eckert Institute in Braunschweig, Germany.The Research Professorship offers distinguished scholars from various disciplines (such as the humanities, political and social sciences, education sciences or law) the opportunity to conduct research projects and/or finish major publications in a stimulating research environment without teaching or administrative obligations. During the three-month appointment, Naseem will convene an international symposium, entitled “Peace 2.0: Social Media as a Space for Sustainable Peace Education.” Jean-Michel Roessli, associate professor in the Department of Theological Studies, has been elected by the scientific committee of the École des hautes études en sciences sociales (EHESS) in Paris, France, as a “Directeur d’études invité” for three years in the broad interdisciplinary project on Historiography of Ecclesiology (IVth-XXIst c.), directed by the French medievalist Dominique Iogna-Prat. Roessli will be giving four lectures at the EHESS every May from 2014 to 2016. Jane McGaughey, assistant professor at the School of Canadian Irish Studies, has just been awarded a three-year $39,461 research grant to fund her project “Masculinity, Migration and Violence: Conflict and Rebellion in Ireland and the Canadas, 1798-1838.” The grant is from the Fonds de recherche du Québec - Société et culture.Suong Hoa, professor in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, and his research collaborators were awarded first place in the project category at the research forum of the Consortium de Recherche et innovation synergétiques en aérospatiale (CRIAQ), hosted in Montreal in April. Hoa worked with fellow Concordian, Minguan Chen, along with Pascal Hubert from McGill University and Goran Fernlund from the University of British Columbia on a project funded by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC). The team’s research resulted in a prototype built out of composite materials using what is called “out of autoclave” manufacturing — that is, cured in an oven only. This project has great potential of lowering the overall costs of materials used in the aerospace industry.Danielle Morin, a professor in the Department of Supply Chain and Business Technology Management at the John Molson School of Business (JMSB), won the Best Paper Award at the 2014 Conference on eLearning Excellence. The event was held at Hamdan Bin Mohammed Smart University in Dubai in March.The paper, entitled “The Effect of Delivery Method on Persistence, Performance and Perceptions,” was co-authored by Jennifer D.E. Thomas from Pace University in New York City, as well as Samie Li Shang Ly, a PhD student and lecturer at Concordia.Raymond Paquin, an associate professor in JMSB’s Department of Management, co-authored a teaching case that was awarded the top prize in its category in the oikos Case Writing Competition. Oikos is an international student-driven organization for sustainable management and economics. The competition is meant to promote the development of new high-quality case studies on sustainability in management, entrepreneurship and finance. Paquin’s case on the Communauto car-share program won first place in the social entrepreneurship track.The Canadian Journal of Film Studies has awarded the inaugural Peter Morris Prize to Haidee Wasson for best article published in the past two years. Wasson, associate professor of Film Studies at Concordia, won for her piece “The Other Small Screen: Moving Images at New York’s World Fair, 1939.” The committee was unanimous in its decision and greatly impressed by the rigorous, innovative and significant contribution to scholarship that her article represented. Steven High, Canada Research Chair in Public History (Tier 2), has just published a new book called Oral History at the Crossroads: Sharing Life Stories of Survival and Displacement (UBC Press, 2014). Stacey Zembryzcki, an affiliate assistant professor in the Department of History, has also published a new book, According to Baba: A Collaborative Oral History of Sudbury’s Ukrainian Community (UBC Press, 2014). Ted McCormick, associate professor in the Department of History, has just published a book chapter, “Restoration Ireland, 1660-88,” in The Oxford Handbook of Modern Irish History (Oxford University Press, 2014). It’s available from Amazon as an eBook and in print.An article by Peter Gossage, professor in the Department of History, titled “Au nom du père? Rethinking the History of Fatherhood in Quebec,” was published in American Review of Canadian Studies (Vol. 44, Issue 1, Spring 2014).Read about his research on fatherhood. On June 1, Shelly Elsliger ran her first half marathon in Plattsburgh, N.Y., as part of the Biggest Loser Run/Walk. When the career advisor at the JMSB Career Management Services had the opportunity last summer to meet the former host of The Biggest Loser TV show Jillian Michaels, it changed her life. Elsliger has marked this run as a commitment to her own health and wellness.Lisa-Marie Breton, a strength and conditioning coach with the Concordia Stingers varsity programs, was presented the Isobel Gathorne-Hardy Award by Hockey Canada in April. The award, named after the daughter of former Governor General of Canada Lord Stanley of Preston, recognizes a significant contribution to female hockey both on and off the ice. Read the full article.Félix Jarry, a student in the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science, was named Student Athlete of the Year at the Ligue de Hockey Junior AAA du Québec’s Gala Méritas. Not only has he excelled academically, Félix recorded 12 goals and 12 assists for 24 points in 51 games.Three Concordia students were awarded the Lieutenant Governor of Quebec Bronze Youth Medals: Lex Gill, Jaymee Shell and Erica Couto.The Youth Medals are one of three categories of awards given out by the Lieutenant Governor to Quebecers who have had a positive influence on their community and demonstrated an exceptional capacity to go above and beyond for the benefit of others.Here are the three winners:Lex GillGill was president of the Concordia Student Union during the 2011-2012 academic year. As president, she was a key player during the Maple Spring student protests in 2012. Gill worked with students and with the Concordia administration to ensure student safety and maintain dialogue. She sat on the university’s Board of Governors and a number of its sub-committees, and the university Senate. In this work, she built a reputation for honesty, intelligence and commitment to her members and to the university.Jaymee ShellConcordia Stingers women’s hockey player Shell received the Médaille du Lieutenant-gouverneur pour la jeunesse in recognition of her academics and community involvement. An ambassador for Concordia on and off the ice, she organized the women’s hockey team’s volunteer work at the N.D.G. Food Bank and was involved in the university’s Wellness Week. Shell is also a member of Concordia’s prestigious Garnet Key Society.Read the full article.Erica CoutoFormer vice president of Clubs and Services at the Fine Arts Student Alliance, Couto is the founder of the Inuit Art Research Group, for which she organized field trips and study sessions and represented Concordia at conferences and symposia on Inuit Art. She also sat as the Fine Arts representative of Concordia Student Council, where she ensured that Fine Arts students’ voices were heard at the highest level of student government.
        eLearning polymath Saul Carliner wins top international teaching award
    
        Alumni win big at the 2014 Junos
    
        Accolades for the week of March 17
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityWilliam Bukowski recognized by the Society for Research on Adolescents, and other accoladesNews
            
                News
            Related storiesRelated topicsFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424