http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/executive-education/programs/business-ownership.htmlOverview    Dates & fee    Syllabus    Faculty    ContactCould you? Should you?The goal of this program is to help you find the right business to acquire, and to ensure that you have the tools to make the acquisition successful.When trying to determine whether to become a business owner by buying an existing business, there are many elements for you to consider. It begins with the will to be independent and to be your own boss.  The program then adds a blend of theoretical concepts and real-life stories from industry experts and practitioners who have lived the experience that you use to fill the gaps in your knowledge and experience.  You will learn to do by doing, and practitioners will bring a real-life dimension to the modules, guiding you through your own business acquisition experience.Small and medium sized enterprises are the engine driving the Canadian economy, accounting for 99% of it. No matter what drives you, this program will give you the practical tips and tools you need to assess and acquire a business of your own. If you successfully acquire a business through the program, you will be assigned a mentor to guide you through the early stages of your business ownership.The Certificate in Business Ownership “Buying Your Own Business” gives participants insight into business ownership: Learn where to look and how to scope out potential businesses. Acquire the knowledge about business operations and how to determine a business’s value. Assess the risks, prepare your offer and master the art of negotiation.Ideal candidates include:Dates: January 20 - May 13, 2017  (14 days)
Location: Montreal (John Molson Building)
Language: English
Cost: $17,500 CAD (+ taxes)*Includes meals, material, access to webinars for the entire program, graduation cocktail and the certificate of achievement. * Ask about payment plan options. Cancellation policy
 Government incentives for Executive EducationTHE RIGHT STUFF: What Does it Take to Own a Business, and How to Get There
 Module Leader: Rob NasonWhat characteristics do successful business owners have? What types of ownership models are there? You will undergo a series of assessments that will reveal your strengths and your career interests. Perhaps a sole proprietorship is right for you…or maybe your skills need to be complemented by those of a partner? This module will help you determine the business model that best matches your goals.SCOPE OUT POSSIBILITIES: Business Ownership - Planning, Feasibility and Opportuni: Judy NagyBy researching your market thoroughly, you can minimize risk, avoid making poor decisions, and use real data to guide you toward understanding which industries are most attractive and most promising to enter. Learn how to analyze trends, assess the competition and understand the industry you are about to compete in, in order to identify new opportunities and areas for potential growth.KNOW THE MARKET - KNOW THE BUSINESS
 Module Leader: Judy NagyBefore buying a business, you need to know how it operates. What should you be looking for in the operation of the business processes? What are the HR constraints? What marketing strategies have been used? This is a fundamental exercise prior to making an offer. By analyzing the business before acquisition, you will better be able to negotiate the purchase agreement, and be better positioned for a seamless transition.  FORGET THE ASKING PRICE: The Art of Valuation of Prospective Businesses 
 Module Leaders: Michel Magnan and Denis SchweizerWhat is the real value of the business you are about to buy? This module looks at the financial considerations surrounding the acquisition of a business. The learning objectives are:SHOW ME THE MONEY: Structuring Your Deal / Financing and Alternatives
 Module Leaders: Michel Magnan and Denis SchweizerHow an ownership transfer deal is structured is important. There are many elements to consider: purchase price, down payment amount and outside financing terms, to name a few. The structure of the deal impacts cash flows and ultimately, the value of the business.Financing decisions have a considerable impact on a company’s capital structure and can often determine the success or failure of a deal. In this module, various financing types are presented and discussed. These include bank financing, private equity, private debt markets, mini-bonds, quasi equity partners and crowdfunding. RISKY BUSINESS: Decision Making and Mitigating Risk
 Module Leader: Stephen KibseyLearn how to develop a risk management program for your business. The intrinsic value of a business depends on how well risks have been identified, evaluated and mitigated in the pre-acquisition due-diligence and operations stages. By being prepared for unexpected but probable events, an owner may avoid– or at least limit– the impact of a permanent loss of capital. This module uses case studies, introduces you to available tools and examines emerging risk trends.SEAL THE DEAL: Negotiating your Purchase Agreement
 Module Leader: Matthew MulfordBeing able to skillfully negotiate with suppliers, buyers and employees is critical to the success of your venture. Learn how to prepare for a negotiation, develop winning strategies and tactics, and understand needs and wants to create value. Learn how to structure a purchase agreement for your new business. Lead a thoughtful due diligence process to uncover hidden landmines and finally close the deal.Academic Director
 Rob Nason
 Assistant Professor, ManagementJudy Nagy, MScA
 Lecturer, ManagementMichel Magnan, PhD, FCPA, FCA, ASC, C.Dir
 Professor, Accountancy
 Stephen A. Jarislowsky Chair in Corporate GovernanceDenis Schweizer, PhD
 Associate Professor, FinanceStephen Kibsey, MBA, CFA
 Founding contributor to the Sustainable Investment Professional Certification program
 Mentor to Kenneth Woods Portfolio Management ProgramMatthew Mulford, PhD
 Affiliate Professor, HEC Paris
 Visiting Senior Fellow, London School of Economics
 Visiting Faculty, ESMT Berlin Contact us if you wish to receive detailed outlines for the modules covered in this program.Lisa Mylocopos
Phone: 514-848-3960
Toll free: 1-866-333-2271 © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityCertificate inBusiness OwnershipJohn Molson Executive Centre
            
                John Molson Executive Centre
            
Overview
Dates and fee
Syllabus
FacultyGuest faculty
Program contactThinking of buying a business?Module 1 – January 20 and 21, 2017Module 2 – February 3 and 4, 2017Module 3 – February 17 and 18, 2017Module 4 – March 3 and 4, 2017Module 5 – March 10 and 11, 2017Module 6 – March 31 and April 1, 2017Module 7 – May 12 and 13, 2017Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424