http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/undergraduate/business-certificates/business-studies.htmlThis 30 credit program is not open to students registered in a program leading to an undergraduate degree. Students may transfer into the Certificate program up to 12 credits earned in an incomplete degree or Certificate program or as an Independent student, provided they are students in good standing. The credits that may be so transferred are determined by the University at the point of entry into the program.Applicants to the JMSB Certificate in Business program must hold a Diploma of Collegial Studies or the equivalent, including the following courses: Calculus 1, Linear Algebra, Macroeconomics, Microeconomics, and a Computer Literacy course.

Mature students: MATH 208, 209; ECON 201, 203; BTM 200.

Admissions requirements are the same as those for entry to the Bachelor's degree programs. See requirements. 
1st Year (24 credits)Semester 1Prerequisite: COMM 212 previously or concurrently; ECON 201 or 203 or equivalent previously or concurrently. This course exposes students to an in-depth reading of several contemporary business books. It aims to incite students to develop a critical perspective on business literature. Students are also encouraged to explore popular and influential business writing; expose and evaluate the central ideas for scope, relevance, and managerial utility. NOTE: It is recommended that part-time students complete this course, along with COMM 212, as early in their program as possible.Prerequisite: INTE 290 or DESC 200 previously or concurrently. This course focuses on the principles and techniques of clear, concise, and effective, written and oral communication, especially as they apply to business. The formal, grammatical, and stylistic elements of written and oral business communication are emphasized. In addition, students are instructed in and experience the use of audiovisual means of communication. NOTE: It is recommended that part-time students complete this course, along with COMM 210, as early in their program as possible.Prerequisite: INTE 290 or DESC 200 previously or concurrently; MATH 208 or equivalent, MATH 209 or equivalent. This course introduces the fundamentals of statistics as applied to the various areas of business and administration. Topics covered include techniques of descriptive statistics, basic theory of probability and probability distributions, estimation and hypotheses testing, chi-square tests in contingency table analysis and for goodness-of-fit, and simple linear regression and correlation. Prerequisite: COMM 210 previously or concurrently. This course examines the theory and practice involved in measuring, reporting, and analysing an organisation's financial information. Concepts underlying financial statements are discussed, with an emphasis on generally accepted accounting principles. Disclosures/requirements concerning financial statements as well as information needs of decision-makers are introduced. 
Semester 2
 Prerequisite: COMM 210, 215; ECON 201 or equivalent; ECON 203 or equivalent previously or concurrently. This course provides a general perspective on the history, operation and relation ships between Canadian and international product, labour and financial markets. Specifically, students will be introduced to issues of fundamental importance to today's managers and entrepreneurs such as changes in structure and competitiveness in these markets in response to government policies, the determination and behaviour of interest rates, inflation, market integration, and the role and function of financial intermediation. It further provides students with the knowledge of the role and impact of regulation and other government interventions in these markets. Prerequisite: COMM 210, 212. This course is designed to provide students with an opportunity to study individual behaviour in formal organizations. Through theoretical case and experiential approaches, the focus of instruction progressively moves through individual, group and organizational levels of analysis. Topics in the course include perception, learning, personality, motivation, leadership, group behaviour, and organizational goals and structure. Note:  Students who havae received credit for MANA 202 may not take this course for credit.Prerequisite: COMM 210, COMM 212 previously or concurrently. This survey course introduces students to the key concepts in marketing. Topics covered include marketing strategy, buyer behaviour, and the impact of technology on the discipline. The course also explores the important role that marketing plays in advancing society.Students who have received credit for COMM 224 or MARK 201 may not take this course for credit.Prerequisite: COMM 210, 212, 215. This course is an introduction to contemporary operational issues and techniques in the manufacturing and service sectors. Among the topics covered are: operations strategy, forecasting, materials' management, total quality management, timebased competition, and minimal manufacturing. Mathematical modelling in resource allocation is also introduced. Cases and computer-aided quantitative tools for decision-making are used throughout the course with an emphasis on the interactions between production/operations management and other business disciplines. Students choose six credits in consultation with an academic advisor from within JMSB.Tel: 514-848-2424, ext. 2721
Fax: 514-848-2822
study.jmsb@concordia.ca© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityCertificate in Business StudiesJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessCOMM 210   Contemporary Business Thinking   (3.0 credits)
                
                    COMM 212   Business Communication   (3.0 credits)
                
                    COMM 215   Business Statistics   (3.0 credits)
                
                    COMM 217   Financial Accounting   (3.0 credits)
                
                    COMM 220   Analysis of Markets   (3.0 credits)
                
                    COMM 222   Organizational Behaviour and Theory   (3.0 credits)
                
                    COMM 223   Marketing Management I   (3.0 credits)
                
                    COMM 225   Productions / Operations Management   (3.0 credits)Admission requirementsCore program structurePrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notes
ElectivesContact usConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424