http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/encs/mechanical-industrial/students/undergraduate/capstone.htmlThe Capstone Engineering Design project is a supervised design, simulation or experimental project involving the definition of a design problem, carrying out the research and design, and demonstrating results. Teams consist of 5-7 students. Capstone provides students the opportunity to demonstrate good judgment, challenge and enhance their ability to solve open-ended design problems, and improve team work skills. Solving real industrial problems is encouraged and is facilitated by course coordinators and project supervisors.Students have the opportunity to submit their own project proposals in the summer prior to taking Capstone as well as in the first week of classes. Once the majority of students are registered for the course, the course co-ordinator(s) will send detailed information by e-mail, explaining how and when you are expected to submit your proposal. You must be registered in order to submit a proposal.
Alternately, students who do not wish to make a proposal can select from a list of pre-approved projects available at the beginning of each term. Based on this selection, the course co-ordinator(s) will form your Capstone team.Every year, students in Mechanical and Industrial engineering compete to win various awards given by the department. These awards include the Richard Cheng Design Award for mechanical engineering students, along with awards from the department given to selected teams in both mechanical and industrial engineering.The awards are given based on the originality and functionality of a working prototype, as well as the excellence of presentations and reports. The Richard Cheng Design Award also considers the overall academic achievement of each individual student in the team.In order to register for MECH/INDU 490 you must fill in a registration form, usually available by the end of February, at Student Academic Services (EV2.125). You cannot register for for this course through MyConcordia.If you meet the minimum requirements as outlined in the Undergraduate Calendar and receive approval from Student Academic Services, the faculty will register the course on your behalf.Mechanical Engineering
Dr. Ashok KaushalIndustrial Engineering
Dr. Nadia Bhuiyan© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityCapstone Engineering Design ProjectDepartment of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE)
            
                Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE)What is the Capstone Engineering Design Project?Projects, Proposals and Capstone TeamsCapstone Design AwardsHow do I register for Capstone?Capstone coordinatorsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424