http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/research/centres.htmlFind out more about the fascinating work being done at JMSB's research centres.

The mission of the Centre for Multidisciplinary Behavioural Business Research (CMBBR) is to advance the knowledge of behavioural issues in businesses and organizations. 

The Centre for Small Business and Entrepreneurial Studies (CSBES) was established in 1984 to develop courses and training programs, to sponsor and promote research on the needs of entrepreurs and small businesses, and to support Montreal-area entrepreneurs, small businesses, NGOs and entrepreneurial and small business associations.

The CN Centre for Studies in Sustainable Supply Chain Management provides an effective and mutually beneficial applied teaching and research platform where JMSB and CN will collaborate on designing, executing and bringing to fruition sustainable supply chain management based projects that have academic and business merit.

The CPA Research Centre in Accountability provides support and funding for primarily research, and teaching initiatives at the department of Accountancy at JMSB. The CPA Research Centre encourages research in a number of areas, including organizational performance, business ethics, management accounting, sustainability and information technology. 

The David O’Brien Centre for Sustainable Enterprise (DOCSE) focuses its efforts on guiding organizations toward holistic sustainable strategies that are rooted in innovation and enterprise development.

The Desjardins Centre for Innovation in Business Finance is funded by a generous endowment from the Desjardins Group. The Centre’s research will focus on innovation in business finance and on advances in the financial services sector, with specific reference to the effects on small to medium-sized business customers. 

The Institute for Community Entrepreneurship and Development undertakes research, but is also a centre for training for social and economic development in Aboriginal, Black, ethnic and immigrant communities.

The Institute for Governance of Private and Public Organizations was founded as a joint initiative of Concordia’s John Molson School of Business and HEC Montréal with the goal of raising the overall quality of governance. This is done through research, training, policy papers and knowledge dissemination.

The Interneg Research Centre is a collaborative research initiative in e-negotiations, supported by Science and Engineering Research Canada, and the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, Germany.

The ultimate goal of the Luc Beauregard Centre of Excellence in Communications Research is to strengthen exchanges between industry and academia, better understand the role of communications in business and propel excellence in doctoral studies.The National Bank Initiative in Entrepreneurship and Family Business is funded by a generous endowment from the National Bank. The Initiative’s purpose is to promote research projects in the field of entrepreneurship and family business, and to support undergraduate and students with an interest in entrepreneurship and family business.The Bob and Raye Briscoe Centre in Business Ownership Studies supports teaching and research in the area of business ownership and entrepreneurship at the John Molson School of Business. The Laboratory for Sensory Research is located at the John Molson School of Business and funded by the Canadian Foundation for Innovation (CFI).© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityResearch centres & laboratoriesJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessLaboratoriesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424