http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/graduation-convocation/ceremonies/ceremony.htmlWelcome to an exciting day for graduates and guests. Learn a little about convocation etiquette and scheduling to keep things moving smoothly.  Don’t worry, the Concordia convocation team — our "marshals"  — will be available at all times to guide you and your guests. Note the ceremony lasts approximately two and a half hours. Out of courtesy for all graduates, we ask that you and your guests stay for the entire ceremony.When you arrive at Place des Arts the marshals will place you in the correct sequence according to the number on your marshalling card. This ensures you receive the correct degree on stage!Remember to bring the marshalling card you received at gown distribution! If you did not get a gown or hood at gown distribution, staff on site at Place des Arts will assist you.Your guests must bring the two (2) guest tickets you were issued at gown distribution. These guest tickets must be presented at the door at Théâtre Maisonneuve before the ceremony. Children under the age of five will not require tickets as long as they do not occupy a seat. Seating is general admission.After gown distribution, extra tickets may be available, to a maximum of two (2) additional tickets per graduate, starting at 10:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m. on Friday, 4 November 2016 in the Atrium of the McConnell Building (LB Building). These tickets will be distributed on a first-come, first-served basis. Please note that graduates must present their marshalling card in order to receive these tickets.Here are some points that you might find nice-to-know:  Graduates enter the Convocation hall in a formal procession led by a piper - guests will already be seated in the hall.Graduates enter the hall in this order:After all the graduates are seated, members of the faculty, staff, Board of Governors and Senate enter the Convocation hall and take their places on stage. You will be led, row by row, to the backstage area where your marshalling card is scanned and returned to you. Remember - while lining up there will be a chance for a quick photo before you enter the backstage area.From the backstage area you will be directed to the Reader (the person on stage at the podium who will read your name) on stage - you whisper your name to the Reader (to ensure correct pronunciation of your name).The Reader will announce your name and degree and you cross the stage.As you cross the stage, your family and friends will see your image, your name and your degree projected onto the large screens over the stage (barring any unforeseen technical difficulties). At that point your guests will have a brief moment to clap for you, but only a moment – so please ask your guests to be considerate of the graduate following you on stage.You will walk to the Vice-President, Research & Graduate Studies and turn to face the audience while the Vice-President places the appropriate hood on your shoulders.Shake hands with the Vice-President and with the Chancellor and then proceed to the Dean of the faculty to receive your diploma. The Registrar will escort you to a seat on the stage.You will walk across the stage, shake hands with the Dean of Graduate Studies and with the Chancellor and then proceed to the Dean of the faculty to receive your diploma and return to a seat in the audience.You will walk across the stage, shake hands with the President or the Chancellor or the Chairman of the Board of Governors. Proceed to the Dean of the faculty to receive your diploma and return to a seat in the audience.A few steps after receiving your diploma, a Concordia University Alumni Association member will give you a Concordia pin to welcome you!  The ceremony ends with a brief closing address by the Provost. The ceremony is over after the platform party - the members of the faculty, staff, Board and Senate - leave the stage and Convocation hall.Please stay seated until everyone has left the stage. As you leave the hall, marshals will direct you to the exits and to gown return.
Congratulations! You are now a Concordia alumnus!
Now is the time to take pictures and celebrate with your nearest and dearest! And while you’re savouring your big moment, why not join your professors and family for a celebratory vin d'honneur in the main lobby?Please remember to return your gown before you leave - the gown supplier will bill you for the full value of the gown if it is not returned. Don't forget to look for Concordia Stores selling Concordia University frames for your diploma!  Ceremony dates and times are subject to change without notice. Please note that Concordia may tape, film, webcast or broadcast the ceremony.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityAt the ceremonyGraduation & convocation
            
                Graduation & convocationBefore the ceremony starts
                
            
                
					
                    Etiquette during the ceremony
                
            
                
					
                    Entering convocation hall
                
            
                
					
                    Receiving your degree
                
            
                
					
                    How does the ceremony end?
                
            
                
					
                    After the ceremony: celebration!How convocation worksConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424How does getting your degree on stage work?If you are receiving a Doctorate:If you are receiving a Master/Magisteriate, Graduate Diploma or Graduate Certificate:If you are receiving a Bachelor/Baccalaureate or Undergraduate Certificate: