http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/education/programs/undergraduate/certificate-teaching-english-second-language-tesl.htmlThis 30-credit undergraduate program is offered to expert speakers of English who have a completed undergraduate degree and an interest in teaching ESL. The program does not lead to provincial certification but it provides an excellent training in TESL. The certificate can be completed within one academic year of full-time study, starting in the fall term. All courses are offered in the evenings so students may pursue their studies on a part-time basis while working during the day. The TESL Certificate is designed primarily for those who wish to teach overseas or in private language schools. It is also appropriate for certified teachers who would like to know more about the teaching of English as a second language and perhaps teach ESL in addition to another subject such as history or math. It consists of 10 core courses from the B.Ed program. The program consists of 10 core courses; 2 courses in English Composition taken in the English department, TESL courses which form the core of the B.Ed. program (Modern English Grammar, Grammar for Teachers, Phonology for Teachers, Language Acquisition, and Testing, Evaluation and Course Design), two methodology courses which focus on the teaching of adults, and a practicum course which is conducted with adult learners.Students must have a first university degree, have a good academic record and must have passed the English composition placement test with a satisfactory grade.*Please note that two additional test dates have been added specifically for TESL applicants on the following dates: Friday, January 13, 2017 and Friday, February 3, 2017 from 3pm to 6pm in room FG 5.225.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
 Learn more about the application assessment period and academic timetable.Graduates are prepared to take on challenging positions as teachers, researchers and administrators in the public and private sector.The Department has several specialized facilities that support student engagement in the practical application of their studies. The Sage language lab supports the development of skills required for the program in the Teaching of English as a Second Language.Computers are integrated into all aspects of student life at the graduate and undergraduate levels and every seminar room is designed to support computer use by faculty members and students alike.Students also benefit from the resources and support of the TESL Association.Learn more about student resources & facilities.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityTeaching English as a Second LanguageDepartment of Education
            
                Department of Education
            Key resourcesWho should apply?
                
            
                
					
                    Program structure
                
            
                
					
                    Application procedures
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    After your degree
                
            
                
					
                    Student resources & facilitiesProgram overviewCertificate (Certificate)30 creditsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Admission requirements for the Certificate only: