http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/child-studies.htmlEnrich a child’s life through activities that engage and inspire them. This program gives you a strong foundation for working with children while offering the flexibility to bring your passion for other fields such as art, music, drama, exercise science, or second languages into an educational or community milieu.In a curriculum that combines theory and fieldwork, you’ll follow a core education curriculum and choose among three areas of concentration: Administration in Childhood Settings, Exceptional Children in Childhood Settings, or Children and Technology.As a Child Studies major, you’ll observe children interacting with experienced teachers and:After graduation, you’ll leave with the knowledge, skill and passion to succeed in early childhood education, work as an administrator or pursue graduate studies.A Bachelor of Arts degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background.Concentration:The 3-year BA in Child Studies explores many facets of child development, socialization, and education, focusing primarily on children from ages two to 12. The program is designed to accommodate career objectives for two different groups of students: people who intend to eventually pursue graduate studies to do research in Child Study or Educational Psychology or those who intend to work with children in settings such as daycare, hospitals and after-school care.See full degree requirements in the Undergraduate Calendar.No specific courses are required beyond a DECMinimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.If required, TOEFL iBT min. score of 90 or IELTS min. score of 7.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
 Child Studies offers courses in the foundations of educational practice that introduce the student to theory of child development and other issues related to the care of children in today's social context. Specialized courses are offered in three specific sub-areas:These topics further prepare students to work with children in particular areas of child care. A practicum in a child care setting of the student's choosing is a required part of the program normally done in the final year of study. Child Studies provides an excellent basis for students wishing to pursue graduate degrees in the field of child development and learning in either the practical or research context.See full degree requirements.Sample classesRead all course descriptions in the Undergraduate Calendar.Internal applicants
 Students who are already pursuing an undergraduate degree at Concordia and who wish to apply to Child Studies need to complete only the Department of Education application. A current transcript of Concordia grades and a letter describing previous experience and study related to child care as well as a statement of career goals . If you have accumulated fewer than 18 credits, an copy of your CEGEP grades must be submitted.Applying as a graduating student
 PLEASE NOTE: If you are in your last year at Concordia University and will be graduating at the end of this academic year, you are considered to be an external applicant and must re-apply to the University by completing the General University application form as well as the Specialization Programme application. A current transcript of Concordia grades and letters of reference are required.For questions about the program please contact childstudies@education.concordia.ca or 514-848-2424 ext. 2029Graduates are prepared to take on challenging positions as educators and administrators in daycares, hospitals and after-school programs. Others pursue graduate studies to do research in child studies or educational psychology.The Department has several specialized facilities that support student engagement in the practical application of their studies. Computers are integrated into all aspects of student life at the graduate and undergraduate levels and every seminar room is designed to support computer use by faculty members and students alike. Learn more about student resources & facilities.A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityChild Studies (BA)Related programsKey resourcesJoin the ConversationProgram options & degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Applications from current students
                
            
                
					
                    After your degree
                
            
                
					
                    Student resources & facilitiesWhy choose Child Studies?Program detailsUnited States  studentsBachelor of Arts (BA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Cegep StudentsMinimum Cut-off Averages