http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/cissc/about/CISSC_Calls.htmlIf you have an idea for a public lecture, exhibition, workshop or symposium, the Centre for Interdisciplinary Studies in Society and Culture (CISSC) would like to help make your event happen. The one condition is that the happening contribute to the expansion of interdisciplinary studies at Concordia by appealing to a super-departmental audience.

Applications are invited from individual full-time faculty members in the Faculty of Arts and Science and the Faculty of Fine Arts, and may also be on behalf of a working group, research team or other research unit.CISSC may contribute $300, $600, $1200 or $1800 to your happening. Proposals, using the CISSC Happenings Proposal Form (below), will be accepted throughout the year. There are no deadlines. However, if you want to use the CISSC contribution as matching funds for purposes of an application to the Aid to Research-Related Events (ARRE) program run by the Office of the Vice-President Research and Graduate Studies, or a SSHRC Connections grant, then please allow two weeks. Note: Each faculty has its own internal deadlines for applications to the ARRE (twice per year) or Connections grant program (four times per year). Please check with your faculty research facilitator.

All applications are reviewed by the CISSC Steering Committee. Criteria include academic or artistic stature of the invited speaker, interest of the topic and potential contribution to the advancement of interdisciplinary studies at Concordia. Eligible expenses may include such items as airfare, local transportation and meals (alcohol is not reimbursable) and honoraria. Applications for CISSC Happenings are received and reviewed on a rolling basis. Please contact us any time. CISSC Happenings Proposal FormThe Centre for Interdisciplinary Studies in Society and Culture seeks to promote interdisciplinary research and scholarship across the Faculties of Arts and Science and Fine Arts. As part of its mission, the Centre supports four working groups each year.The intention of the working group program is to create a space for interdisciplinary discussions that may lead to new collaborations and the formation of new research teams, or lay the ground for new cross-departmental or cross-faculty cooperation. In the past, working groups have used their funds to invite an external speaker, hold a symposium, attend exhibitions, constitute a reading circle, discuss works in progress, and to subsidize other activities. View current and past Working Groups and their activities.Working groups consist of three or more faculty members from two or more departments who undertake to meet a minimum of five times a year. In order to promote exchange and the development of new research networks, meetings are scheduled in advance, and publicized on the CISSC website. Meetings are open to graduate students as well as faculty.Special funds have made it possible to sponsor a fifth working group in 2016-2017 dedicated to investigating and theorizing aspects of diversity. Investigating diversity may include research on a variety of related themes and sub-themes, such aspost-coloniality, nationalisms, genocide, race and racism, ethnic and inter-ethnic relations, intercultural communications, education and social diversity, immigration and migration, public policies pertaining to ethnicity and social diversity, religion and social diversity, intersectional studies of gender and sexuality, and dis/ability.The diversity working group will have an augmented budget ($4,500).Eligibility and RequirementsThe deadline for the call for working group proposals for the 2017-2018 academic year will be issued in mid-February 2017 with a deadline in mid-March. Please use the application form below to submit your proposal.The following information is required:- name and rationale for the group’s interdisciplinary character
- key questions
- the issues in scholarship, research, or creation that the group will address
- proposed activities
- projected budgetThe application form must be signed by a minimum of three Concordia faculty members from more than one academic department who have agreed to participate. Please indicate whether you wish your proposal to be considered for the diversity working group category.FundingTypically, working groups can apply for up to $1,500 per year, with funds awarded based on activities proposed. The diversity working group will have an augmented budget ($4,500).  The involvement of graduate students, especially PhD Humanities students is an asset. See profiles of students enrolled in the PhD Humanities Program.Proposals will be reviewed by the CISSC Steering Committee and results will be announced by March 30, 2017.Application Form and DeadlineThe deadline for working group proposals for the 2017 - 2018 academic year will be issued in mid-Febuary, 2017. Proposals should be sent electronically to Sharon.Fitch@concordia.caWorking Group application formThe Centre for Interdisciplinary Studies in Society and Culture aims to promote breaking research in ethnicity and/or social diversity. Four (4) research travel stipends of up to $1500 apiece will be distributed each year over the next three years, beginning in 2016.“Ethnicity and/or social diversity” is interpreted broadly to include research on a variety of related themes and sub-themes such as post-coloniality, nationalisms, genocide, race and racism, ethnic and inter-ethnic relations, intercultural communications, education and social diversity, immigration and migration, public policies pertaining to ethnicity and social diversity, religion and social diversity, intersectional studies of gender and sexuality, and dis/ability.Eligibility and RequirementsAll full-time tenured or tenure-track faculty members are eligible to apply.The stipends are keyed to the initiation of research rather than the dissemination of research. (They cannot be used for conference travel.)  It should also be noted that the stipends are intended to support exploratory research rather than supplementary research.In an Introductory paragraph, applicants are required to state their destination (such as an archive, an exhibition or a visit with a particular person or persons) and to discuss the relevance of the proposed research to the advancement of knowledge in the area of ethnicity and/or social diversity (as defined above).In a Justificatory paragraph, applicants are required to show how the proposed research represents a new departure for them, or a new branch of an existing program of research.  Applicants must also provide a sketch of how they see the proposed research forming the basis of future grant applications, publications, and/or exhibitions.The research travel must take place within the same calendar year that the subsidy is granted (i.e. February-December). In December of each year, successful applicants will be invited to present their research at an informal gathering organized by the CISSC Director.  Six (6) months after the research travel is completed, successful applicants will be required to file a report detailing outcomes.ApplicationA complete application consists of an introductory paragraph (ca. 250 words), a justificatory paragraph (ca. 250 words), and a copy of the applicant’s CV (Canadian Common, SSHRC, CIHR, or homespun but not to exceed 10 pages). Diversity Research Travel Stipend application formDeadlinesThe 2017 Call for Proposals will be issued in early December, 2016 with a deadline of 16 January 2017. All application materials should be submitted electronically to Sharon.Fitch@concordia.ca.Review and ResultsApplications will be reviewed by the CISSC Steering Committee and results will be announced by 30 January 2017. Evaluation criteria will include stage of career, track record, originality and interest of the proposed research, projected outcomes.Allowable ExpensesAllowable expenses will include: airfare, hotel, local transportation, meals, and admission fees. Please note that travel arrangements are not coordinated by CISSC.We would be happy to answer any questions you might have about the application process and look forward to receiving your proposal by 16 January.The call for the Humanities PhD courses is normally posted in the fall.  © Concordia UniversityAbout the Centre
Working Groups
Events, lectures and conferences
PhD in Humanities
NewsConcordia UniversityCISSC CallsFaculty of Arts and Science
            
                Faculty of Arts and ScienceCISSC Happenings
                
            
                
					
                    Working Groups
                
            
                
					
                    Diversity Research Travel Stipend
                
            
                
					
                    Other calls for proposalsCalls for Proposal go out for different CISSC initiatives throughout the year. Please find below a list of those initiatives, and information regarding application procedures as well as deadlines. If you have any questions please do not hesitate to contact us. Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424