http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/executive-education/coaching-expertise.htmlThe business game is changing. What's your play?Our coaching programs respond to your unique training and development needs with customized and effective solutions.These programs are available to individual managers or as a follow-up to participants after a customized group program. Ready for impact? The John Molson Executive Centre provides one-on-one leadership development opportunities for executives whose responsibilities demand new skills, complex thinking and high performance managerial and interpersonal competencies.  Through a series of individual coaching sessions, our coaching framework ensures a challenging but supportive environment that will lead you to positive change.Your coaching experience is:Our certified coaches provide your team(s) a confidential, empowering and professional coaching experience that can boost performance and create value for your organization. Coaching helps to improve team functioning and strengthens commitment towards a shared vision.The agility of the team will have an impact on your organization’s success.  Your coach will work with your team(s) to gather information on how the team currently functions, offer recommendations to team members for improving communication, collaborating more effectively, and developing trust within the workplace.What you can expect: Studies have shown that productivity increased by 22 % via participating in active learning sessions, adding a one-to-one (8-week) coaching intervention after training pushed productivity to 88 %.Olivero, G., Bane, K.D., and Kopelman, R.E. (Winter, 1997).
Executive coaching as a transfer of training tool: Effects on productivity in a public agency.
Public Personnel Management, 26, 4, 461-469.Highly experienced and certified coaches will help build and monitor your personal action plan and address any questions specific to your job tasks and responsibilities.Not only will you reinforce your newly acquired knowledge and skills, you’ll also better position yourself to successfully apply them on the job. Supplementary reading material will be available for you on the coaching platform.What you need to know: The retreat offers a relaxing setting where the members of the board or executive committee can review the year’s performance and consider the development of plans without constant distractions.  It is also an opportunity to strengthen team relationships and set goals for the upcoming year. The John Molson Executive Centre can offer board level specific coaching related to:1.     Board culture — moving from ceremonial boards to liberated boards to progressive boards — and the implications for board culture.  Board culture can be constructively influenced and shaped and contributes to the effectiveness of governance. 2.     Board leadership — the importance of board leaders fully understanding and stepping into their role, defining the board mandate with clarity, and leveraging the full power of their board. Phone: 514-848-3960
 Toll-free: 1-866-333-2271
 Email: jmec@concordia.ca© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityCoaching & expertiseJohn Molson Executive Centre
            
                John Molson Executive Centre
            
Individual coaching
Team coaching
Post-program sessions
Strategic retreats
Contact us to learn more about how coaching can help you or benefit your organization.Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424