http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/encs/info-systems-eng/seminars/2016/11/24/cost-effectiveness-agility-quality-management-practical-experiences-sharing.htmlThursday, November 24, 2016 at 2:00 pm
Room EV001.162In the last ten years, technology such as smart phone among others transformed significantly human interactions with his environment.  Client expectation is perfection:  infinite custom options, immediate delivery or access, no failure, instantaneous usage, new features and upgrades available on a daily basis, lowest cost. To create and maintain such products and services, quality management is essential to remain in the market.  Quality professionals must adapt system and processes to fulfill Client expectation. The challenge is that to develop today and tomorrow products and services, processes and systems are increasing in complexity and budgets and resources are not growing.  During this lecture, I will share with the next generation of quality professionals my experience in quality management and processes implementation such as ISO-9001, SPC, PFMEA, TQM as well as perspectives to maintain cost effectiveness and agility required by the new Technology era. Jean-François Michaud joined IBM Canada in 2001 after obtaining a MBA in Finance from the Northeastern University in Boston. He was nominated recently as the IBM Quebec Global Technology Services CFO.  Prior to IBM, Mr. Michaud obtained his bachelor in Industrial Engineer from École Polytechnique de Montréal and a business law diploma from the University of Montréal.  He also attended specialized training in the field of quality as design of experiment at the University of Waterloo. He is a member of Ordre des Ingénieurs du Québec (OIQ) and of the American Honor Society of Beta Gamma Sigma and Phi Kappa Phi.Mr. Michaud has a proven track record in implementing quality management program by leading diverse teams of people.  He has experience in finance, strategic management, and optimization within a wide range of sectors, including Mutual Fund & Financial Services, Manufacturing, Document Management, and IT Outsourcing Services.  
Dr. Anjali Awasthi
514-848-2424 ext. 5622
anjali.awasthi@concordia.caSearch for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityNovember 24, 2016: Invited Speaker Seminar: Cost-Effectiveness and Agility in Quality Management: Practical Experiences SharingConcordia Center for Composites (CONCOM)
            
                Concordia Center for Composites (CONCOM)
            ContactMr.  Jean François Michaud
IBM Canada Ltd.AbstractBiography
Find an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424For additional information, please contact: