http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/students/exchanges/csep.htmlAre you a current Concordia student who would like to study abroad? If so, the following section of this website is for you and covers information on eligibility requirements, how to apply, Concordia's international student exchange partners, funding and more!To be eligible for exchange, you must:     All graduate students may participate in the exchange program for one semester only. Grad students should not go on exchange during their last semester.For complete information, please visit the MBA website. Concordia International is hosting a series of information sessions: learn how an academic exchange could work for you!Have you ever thought about studying in a foreign country for a semester or two but didn’t know where to begin? Would you like to know more about the countries where you could study, the costs associated in taking part in an exchange or how to complete an exchange application?Then plan to attend one of the many information sessions available to you. We hold information sessions:Every Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday - 3 p.m. to 4 p.m.Evening Sessions - 6 p.m. to 7 p.m.Sessions are at Concordia International (2080 Mackay, Annex X, room 103). You do not need to register, but space is limited, so please show up at least a few minutes early.Application Deadline for 2017-2018 Academic Year: February 1st, 2017.When applying, you are encouraged to choose three host institutions. Things to consider when choosing:Before Concordia International can assign a place for you at a host institution, your Faculty must give you permission to participate in the Concordia Student Exchange Program. You must submit all documents as per your Faculty's instructions.Graduate students must have their courses approved by their Graduate Program Director.   
 
By the indicated deadline, submit a complete Concordia Student Exchange Program (CSEP) application online. Before you can submit your application, you must start preparing the following documents well in advance of the deadline.Personal Statement/Letter of IntentUnofficial TranscriptPassport PhotocopyLanguage Proficiency FormRecommendationsPlease Note: Your faculty may require you to take additional steps or provide additional documents to complete your application. Please ensure that you consult your faculty's website.  All students who have been nominated for an exchange must attend a mandatory CSEP pre-departure session offered by Concordia International. Topics of discussion will include but are not limited to:Funding opportunities are available to help support your exchange! Please check the Funding Opportunities section for additional information.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityConcordia Student Exchange ProgramStudent hub
            
                Student hubMBA studentsJoin our CSEP Information Sessions !Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Graduate eligibility requirements
 
Faculty permission   Congratulations on being nominated for student exchange!Mandatory Pre-departure SessionFunding