http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/executive-education/custom-solutions.htmlOne size doesn't fit all.There’s no one playbook that’s applicable to every business. Each company is one-of-a-kind in its culture, strengths and challenges.Shouldn’t business training programs reflect this? JMEC thinks so. That’s why we deliver customized and flexible learning and development designed to address your own unique needs.Whether it’s in the area of leadership, innovation, decision-making or the development of business acumen, our custom programs ensure that your team’s learning is always a tailored fit.Leadership is a skill that demands continuous finessing and upgrading, especially in today’s changing and fast-paced business culture. Our programs teach and fine-tune leadership skills, preparing you to guide change in your organization. In today’s business climate there’s no pause button when it comes to innovation. At any moment, you’re either disrupting or being disrupted. These programs focus on building the skills and mindset necessary for innovation to flourish in your organization.Whether you’re a new, experienced or future manager, develop the decision-making skills and capabilities that will lead teams towards organizational excellence. Put “Big Data” to work for you by learning how to transform it into relevant, strategic information so you can generate superior, more profitable business decisions.Adaptable to any organization’s reality, these programs develop your ability for strategic thinking, analyzing critical organizational issues, and aligning your organization's vision and mission with operational realities. A custom solution is a powerful investment. Our team will guide you through the process. Follow these five easy steps to get your hands on the finest tailored solutions:District 3’s collaborative ecosystem is like a giant sandbox for innovators. You’ll have all the necessary tools (think 3D printers), resources and knowledge at hand to transform your impactful ideas into reality.Fostering healthy lifestyle skills in one’s employees shouldn’t be a business afterthought.At JMEC we know healthy businesses, careers and lifestyles are all inextricably linked. Mental and physical health skills are as vital and teachable as business skills.As such we recommend incorporating a Healthy Executive component in every program to ensure that your Custom Solution Programs have health and wellness at their core.The Healthy Executive component’s mission is to:Eating a balanced diet can be one of a time-starved executive’s greatest challenges. From the nutritious, local food we feed you to consultations with certified dieticians, we serve up healthy solutions designed to fuel you for excellence in work and life.An executive lifestyle requires energy, stamina and alertness. These are all elements that exercise fosters. With the help of certified exercise physiologists and fitness trainers, we’ll have you climbing the stairs to success with ease.The ability to concentrate in our multi-tasking, smartphone-obsessed culture is a real challenge. By practicing mindfulness meditation, with the help of our trained practitioners, you’ll learn how to decrease stress and increase your ability to focus.As part of this program, we leverage the leading-edge facilities at Concordia, like its PERFORM Centre, and collaborate with fitness, health and wellness professionals. Phone: 514-848-3960
 Toll-free: 1-866-333-2271
 Email: jmec@concordia.ca© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityCustom solutionsLeadershipInnovationDecision-makingBusiness acumenTailoring your custom solutionsDistrict 3Healthy eatingActive lifestyleReflective leadershipJohn Molson Executive Centre
            
                John Molson Executive Centre
            
Custom solution topics
The Healthy Executive
Contact us today to create your development program.The Healthy Executive component is comprised of:Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424