http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/education/programs/graduate/educational-studies-ma.htmlThe MA in Educational Studies reflects the multidisciplinary nature and evolution of education as an academic, intellectual and professional field of study. It attracts students seeking educational opportunities at an advanced level who wish to develop a comprehensive understanding of the wider field of education.

The MA program offers a multi-faceted approach to the study of issues in education. It recognizes the reality and addresses complexity of lifelong learning as an economic and social necessity. Students are encouraged to investigate how children and adults learn and develop skills at all stages and in all facets of their lives.

MA students develop a program of study best suited to their individual academic, research and professional goals. They choose between a thesis option and an intensive course work option. Both options emphasize experimentation, collaboration and diversity and provide excellent preparation for careers in government service and industry. Students in both options may elect to complete a concentration in adult education.Our research interests include:Program optionsStudents in Option A and in Option B may complete a Concentration in Adult Education.Degree requirementsThe degree requirements (45 credits) can be met by the successful completion either of course work and a thesis in an approved area, or of more extended course work and ESTU 692: Directed Study. The choice of a thesis or non-thesis option will normally be determined at an early stage in the student's program. A tentative detailed outline of the proposed research topic must be submitted with the application for admission to the program. A student who completes a thesis or a directed study will normally be required to defend it in an oral examination. Proposed research topics in both options must be approved by the graduate Educational Studies Committee.Program bookletPrior to applying, please  Educational Studies program booklet.General requirementsApplicants must have a minimum of two years of professional experience in education or have taken at least three undergraduate courses in education and attained a minimum grade of “B” in each of them.Language proficiencyPermanent Residents, neither English nor French speaking must take an English Department Placement Test and must achieve the level of ENGL 212 or higher.International applicants: whose first language is neither English nor French: iBTOEFL (90+) or paper-based TOEFL (577+), or IELTS (7.0+).Application processApplicants must complete a Graduate Admission Application and submit supporting documents to the Graduate Admissions Application Centre:*Fall: Late applications may be considered until April 30.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Sample classesConsult the graduate calendar for a complete list of current courses.Opportunities exist for MA students to work as teaching and research assistants within the department. The selection process is competitive. Preference is given to experienced applicants with an aptitude for the work to be performed.

Students interested in teaching assistantships must complete and submit hard copies of the following forms, along with their curriculum vitae, to the Department/Internship Administrator:Research assistants participate in funded projects and are hired by the individual faculty members conducting the research.Learn more about financial support.514-848-2424 ext. 2030 estu@education.concordia.ca© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityEducational Studies (MA)Department of Education
            
                Department of Education
            Key resourcesJoin the conversationResearch interests
                
            
                
					
                    Program options & degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Additional admissions requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Financial support, assistantships & internshipsWhy pursue a master's in educational studies?Questions?Master of Arts (MA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424