http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/events/artsci/2016/10/05/engaging-the-senses-the-48th-annual-conference-of-the-international-visual-literacy-association.htmlThe full conference program can be viewed online here. Registration is mandatory in order to attend the panels, papers, roundtables and workshops. However, a number of events (i.e., the plenary lectures and walkabout) are free and open to the public and we would be delighted to see you there.

PLENARY LECTURESPopulating the Future Imaginary: Using Digital Media to Visualize the Future of Indigenous Communities
Jason Edward Lewis - Digital media artist, poet and software designer, Trudeau Fellow and Professor in the Concordia Department of Design and Computation Arts

2:00-3:00 p.m. Thursday, October 6
Maxwell-Cummings Auditorium
Montreal Museum of Fine Arts, 1379 A Sherbrooke Street West (corner Ave. du Musée, kitty corner to Bishop).

The Sensory Life of Art: A Journey through Six Paintings
Constance Classen - Cultural historian, author of The Deepest Sense: A Cultural History of Touch (2012) and general editor of the 6-volume Cultural History of the Senses set (2014), among other works.
2:00-3:00 p.m. Friday, October 7
Maxwell-Cummings Auditorium
Montreal Museum of Fine Arts, 1379 A Sherbrooke Street West (corner Ave. du Musée, kitty corner to Bishop).

Sovereign Imaginaries: Visualizing the Mystical Foundation of Law's Authority
Richard K. Sherwin - Professor of Law and Director of the Visual Persuasion Project at New York School of Law, and author of Visualizing Law in the Age of the Digital Baroque (2011).

2:00-3:00 p.m. Saturday October 8
Room H-937, Hall Building, Concordia University

WALKABOUT
A chance to tour a range of art exhibitions and demonstrations from “The Enchanted Forest” in Studio 3 at the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts to “Elastic Spaces “ (augmented virtual environments) in the Black Box in the EV Building (2nd basement) to an exhibition of tactile sculptures on the 11th floor of the EV Building. See the Conference Program for details.

When: Wednesday, October 5 — Saturday, October 8, 2016
Where: Concordia University (Metro Guy-Concordia)

http://ivla.org/conference2016/
www.centreforsensorystudies.org© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
                        Engaging the Senses: the 48th Annual Conference of the International Visual Literacy AssociationFaculty of Arts and Science
            
                Faculty of Arts and ScienceConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424