http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/conted/programs-courses/language-institute/english-language-intensive-program.htmlFurther your education. Enhance your career. Make friends from around the world. Have an unforgettable international experience.English skills to help you reach your goals Do you need to improve your English for university admission? Would you like to develop professional language skills for a global marketplace? Or do you want to travel the world and speak English? Reach your English language goals: enrol in the 10-week Intensive English Language Program, tailored to meet the needs of adult learners. Every year we welcome hundreds of students from 55 countries around the world to study in our dynamic, full-time English language program. We have developed integrated-skills courses to help you build your skills in speaking, listening, reading, writing, grammar and vocabulary through studying topics which are engaging and relevant to your needs and interests. Our teachers are experts in second-language acquisition. Studying in our program, you will acquire the English language proficiency you need to feel more comfortable speaking English and to help you meet your academic, professional and personal goals.Students who choose Concordia's Intensive English Language Program will:Students who successfully complete the Advanced 2 level with a final grade of 70% or greater, and who wish to enrol in full-time credited studies at Concordia University, will automatically meet the University's English language proficiency requirements for admission.Please note that students who meet the University's proficiency requirements for admission may still have to take credit ESL courses as part of or in addition to their degree programs. As such, once admitted, all students are required to take a test for placement in the appropriate credit ESL course.Listen to what our students have to say  Our students are at the center of everything we do. We are committed to their academic success and to their well-being as people and as visitors to our country. Read our program mission and values statements.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityIntensive English Language ProgramContinuing Education
            
                Continuing EducationConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424