http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/cissc/working-groups/ethnography-lab.htmlThe Ethnography Lab at Concordia University was established to promote and explore innovative ethnographic research. Ethnography is the traditional methodology of anthropologists, based in situated participant-observation, mixed qualitative data-collection and non-reductive forms of representation. It has recently become popular in other disciplines as well, and even outside of the academy, making it a site of increasingly interdisciplinary methodological thinking. The Lab gathers diverse ethnographic expertise from various faculties at Concordia to foster creative thinking about methodology, to enhance the possibility of new collaborative projects, and to act as a resource for university researchers and people outside of academia who wish to explore cutting-edge ethnography.Kregg Hetherington, Associate Professor, Sociology and AnthropologyBart Simon, Associate Professor, Sociology and AnthropologyMaria Carolina Cambre—Assistant Professor, EducationDr. Maria Carolina Cambre is an artist/scholar/educator. She explores questions of representation and visual meaning-making with an eye to ethics and social justice. Methodologically, a focus on discourse analysis and semiotics on the micro level combined with varied empirical qualitative approaches on the macro level and building research designs are part of her repertoire. Critical theory/methodologies and visual sociology, visual anthropology, critical policy analysis, new methodologies and artistic/creative research practices as well as emerging social and image-centred theories are central to her work. Martin French—Assistant Professor, Sociology and AnthropologyDr. Martin French’s research examines the social dimensions of technology with an empirical focus on communications & information technology and the risks they help to mitigate or aggravate. He studies--often ethnographically--the ways that organizations use surveillance technologies to know and manage the risks they face. Govind Gopakumar—Associate Professor, Centre for Engineering in SocietyDr. Govind Gopakumar is an interdisciplinary scholar whose research interests are quite varied but broadly he is interested in how technological change becomes acceptable to society. In analyzing this puzzle he thinks that a combination of social, policy and technical dynamics play a defining role. His specific interests are in the policy dynamics of urban infrastructure change, social dimensions of the sustainability of water supply, globalization of urban infrastructure, interdisciplinarity in engineering education and social entrepreneurship for engineers.  Kevin Gould—Associate Professor, Geography, Planning and EnvironmentDr. Kevin Gould's research explores everyday processes of policy and market formation.  He is particularly interested in how different forms of expertise and sociotechnical arrangements elaborate systems of rule.  He maintains an ongoing focus on Guatemala as a site of policy/market formation with a particular interest in development and conservation.   Orit Halpern—Associate Professor, Sociology and AnthropologyDr. Orit Halpern’s work bridges the histories of science, computing, and cybernetics with design and art practice. Her most recent book Beautiful Data: A History of Vision and Reason since 1945 (Duke Press 2015) is a genealogy of interactivity and our contemporary obsessions with “big” data and data visualization. She is now working on two books; the first is a history and theory of “smartness”, environment, and ubiquitous computing and the second is on speculative design practices and politics. She has also published and created works for a variety of venues including The Journal of Visual Culture, Public Culture, Configurations, C-theory, and ZKM in Karlsruhe, Germany. Kregg Hetherington—Associate Professor, Sociology and AnthropologyDr. Kregg Hetherington specializes in the ethnography of infrastructure, environment and bureaucracy. He leads research on bureaucracy and agrarian transitions in Latin America, and a research group on Infrastructure and Environment based at Concordia. His publications include Guerrilla Auditors: The Politics of Transparency in Neoliberal Paraguay, and a forthcoming edited volume Environment, Infrastructure and Life in the Anthropocene. 

Tina Hilgers—Assistant Professor, Political ScienceDr. Tina Hilgers’ research deals with poverty and marginalization in urban Latin America and the Caribbean, focusing on informal politics, clientelism, and violence. Her publications include Clientelism in Everyday Latin American Politics (Palgrave Macmillan, 2012, edited volume), A violência na América Latina e no Caribe(Observatorio de Favelas, forthcoming, edited with Jorge Luiz Barbosa), and Violence in Latin America and the Caribbean: Subnational Structures, Institutions, and Clientelism (Cambridge University Press, forthcoming, edited with Laura Macdonald). She is Director of Concordia University’s Lab for Latin American and Caribbean Studies (LLACS). 

Rilla Khaled—Associate Professor, Design and Computation ArtsDr. Rilla Khaled’s research and practice has centred on the design of learning and persuasive games, interactions between games and culture, and practices involved in emerging forms of game design. She currently focuses on speculative play and reflective game design, design perspectives that embrace ambiguous subject matter, foreground play, empower the perspectives of players, and draw together learning and experimental games. Christopher Salter—Associate Professor, Design and Computation ArtsChris Salter is an artist, University Research Chair in New Media, Technology and the Senses at Concordia University and Co-Director of the Hexagram network for Research-Creation in Media Arts and Technology in Montreal. He collaborated with Peter Sellars and William Forsythe/Frankfurt Ballet. His work has been seen all over the world at such venues as the Venice Architecture Biennale, Chronus Art Center Shanghai, Vitra Design Museum, HAU-Berlin, BIAN 2014 (Montreal), LABoral, Lille 3000, CTM Berlin, National Art Museum of China, Ars Electronica, Villette Numerique, Todays Art, Transmediale, EXIT Festival (Maison des Arts, Creteil-Paris) among many others. He is the author of Entangled: Technology and the Transformation of Performance (MIT Press, 2010) and Alien Agency: Experimental Encounters with Art in the Making (MIT Press, 2015). Bart Simon—Associate Professor, Sociology and AnthropologyDr. Bart Simon is co-founder and former director of the Technoculture, Art and Games Research Centre and co-founder and current director of the Milieux Institute for Arts, Culture and Technology at Concordia. His areas of expertise include game studies, science and technology studies and cultural sociology. His ethnographic interests range from micro-ethnography and everyday life to the study of materiality, non-human agency and the intersection of ethnography and design. Some of his most current work is represented in journals such as Games and Culture, Game Studies and Loading and he has ongoing projects on the socio-materialities of play, indie game scenes and player-maker cultures. Mark Watson—Associate Professor, Sociology and AnthropologyHaving worked for over 10 years with Indigenous Ainu in Tokyo and other cities in Japan on issues of urban Indigenous migration, Dr. Watson is currently Principal Investigator of the Nunalijjuaq Action Research Initiative, a five-year Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council funded project working with Inuit in Montreal and across the North to assess and analyze their situation in the city and to implement community-driven actions to promote collective well-being. Alongside being a producer of the bi-weekly Inuktitut language radio show called Nipivut or ‘Our Voice’ (broadcast on CKUT90.3FM), Dr. Watson is interested in the theory and practice of action-oriented and collaborative research and the potential imaginaries of ethnographic research as well as engaged by the ethnographic analysis of radio, podcasting and other mobile facets of collective life.October 5th: Ethnography Lab Inaugural Workshop

The CISSC Ethnography Lab presents an inaugural exploratory workshop for interested graduate students on Wednesday October 5th, from 10am-12pm in H-1120 in the Department of Sociology and Anthropology. The Ethnography Lab is CISSC-sponsored collaborative project of faculty and students across departments to advance and promote experimental ethnographic research methods in the University and beyond. Our activities are meant to foster the development of new research methodologies and tools at the interstices of formal curriculum and applied research. Our desire is to prompt productive methodological engagements with a variety of community, government and industry partners and collaborators across different disciplines and settings through a series of pilot projects to be launched in the Winter semester. In this meeting, we invite interested graduate students from any discipline and at any stage in their studies to explore the developing mandate for the lab, to discuss the problems and possibilities in the application and innovation of ethnographic methods beyond our disciplines, and establish frameworks for the design of pilot projects. The workshop will be led by Kregg Hetherington and Bart Simon, along with other faculty members of the Lab.

 Friday, November 4th: The Toronto ethnography lab visits Concordia UniversityDr. Joshua Barker and Jessika Tremblay from the University of Toronto Ethnography lab will be visiting Concordia University to share their experiences promoting innovative ethnographic research.  When: Friday, November 4th, 2016Time: 10:00am – noonWhere: Hall Building, Room 1120, SGW Campus, Concordia University Who: Faculty, students and members of the general public are welcome! Please rsvp to aryanasoliz (at) gmail.com if you have not already confirmed.  The Ethnography Lab is a University of Toronto Anthropology faculty and student collaboration to promote ethnographic research methods and practice inside and outside the university. Arranged in interest groups, the Lab explores the craft and impact of ethnography in the contemporary world. The groups are Applied Ethnography, Public Ethnography, the Infrastructures Research Group and the Kensington Market Research Project. The Lab acts as a resource centre for the university community by providing intellectual and physical space for those exploring ethnography or seeking to deepen its role in their research. The Lab provides knowledge, technical resources and connections to cross-disciplinary ethnographers from the university, the public and private sector, and the community. For more information visit: https://ethnographylab.ca/  Friday, November 4th: The Toronto ethnography lab visits Concordia University
Dr. Joshua Barker and Jessika Tremblay from the University of Toronto Ethnography lab will be visiting Concordia University to share their experiences promoting innovative ethnographic research.  Faculty, students and members of the general public are welcome! Please rsvp to aryanasoliz (at) gmail.com if you have not already confirmed. Friday, November 4th, 201610:00am – noonHall Building, Room 1120, SGW Campus, Concordia University© Concordia UniversityAbout the Centre
Working Groups
Events, lectures and conferences
PhD in Humanities
NewsConcordia UniversityEthnography LabFaculty of Arts and Science
            
                Faculty of Arts and Science
            Upcoming EventKey questions
                
            
                
					
                    Group members
                
            
                
					
                    ActivitiesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Organizers