http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/international/academic-visitors/faq-academic-visitors.htmlPlease be advised that a number of applicants for Canadian work permits as academic visitors have been refused or been asked for Labour Market Impact Assessments (LMIAs).  Universities are also seemingly being asked to pay new fees for each applicant they invite.  While information about the new requirements is not entirely clear at this point, we continue to monitor what information is available and will provide any updates we can as soon as possible.  At the same time, please also be aware that Concordia cannot apply for LMIAs on behalf of academic visitors and Concordia International will not be able to cover any fees associated with inviting an academic visitor to campus. It is important that all of Concordia’s international visiting scholars be known to the Office of Concordia International. This offers higher visibility, invitations to meet with groups interested in discussing further collaboration with the visitors’ institutions, invitations to receptions and other events to showcase the activities of visitors and their Concordia colleagues. The letter also facilitates the rapid processing of visa applications and allows the visitor to have temporary faculty privileges for library, internet, and other university facilities.Once a host unit is identified, the approval process generally takes no more than two weeks. If a visa is necessary for travel to Canada, please include this letter in the application through the nearest Canadian High Commission or Consular Office.Not under normal circumstances. Occasionally, a research grant or other funding will offset some costs, and a few visitors are offered an honorarium for public lectures, performances, or other activities. In these cases, the circumstances are outlined in the letter of invitation. Many visiting scholars have funding from their home institution or funding agencies.Postdoctoral researchers are considered trainees and are closely associated with a research group, laboratory, or professor. They receive funding, and are eligible to work as research assistants or teaching assistants. For more information and application forms, please visit the Postdoctoral sectionVisiting Professors are hired to teach courses in their area of expertise. These positions are posted well in advance of the academic year, or are proposed by a potential visitor. Please contact the appropriate Department, Faculty, or the Associate Vice-President, International. Appointments are made by the Office of the Provost.Concordia faculty can find information on how to invite a visiting scholar on Cspace (login required). Concordia International© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFAQ for Academic VisitorsIMPORTANT NOTICE!Related pagesContact usConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Why is an official invitation necessary?How long does it take to receive a letter of invitation?Are Academic Visitors paid?What is the difference between an Academic Visitor and a postdoctoral fellow?Can I teach as an Academic Visitor for a full semester or a year?Concordia faculty members