http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/maps/parking/FAQs.htmlSee Parking Map for daily parking facilities on both the Sir George Williams and Loyola Campus  There are no free parking facilities on University premises. Parking must be paid for at all times.Yes, two permits will be provided if you have two cars at no extra cost. However, a $10 fee is applied for any lost permit.If you would like a second permit, there is a $10 additional permit fee, otherwise we issue one permit which you can have registered to more than one vehicle.
If you used the Pay & Display machine and no slip was printed, the transaction most likely did not go through and you were most likely not charged. We recommend you try again -  should there be an issue the second time - please contact Parking Services at 514-848-2424 ext 8777. No. There are no short-term or drop off areas within the parking lots. You cannot leave a car in an unauthorized parking facility and go into the building even if for a short time. If you leave your car in the parking facilities, your vehicle will be ticketed or towed, and the responsibility for payment shall be at the vehicle owner's expense.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityParking FAQsCampus maps
            
                Campus mapsWhere can I park on campus?
                
            
                
					
                    Is there anywhere on campus I can park for free?
                
            
                
					
                    If I have a SGW permit, can I park at Loyola or vice versa?
                
            
                
					
                    If I have two cars, can I get a second parking permit?
                
            
                
					
                    The Pay & Display machine at Loyola did not print my proof of payment to put in my car.
                
            
                
					
                    I only have to drop something off for a few minutes. Can I leave my car in the parking lot with my hazards on?Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424