http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/fibres-mfa.htmlTextiles have always played a role in social and cultural history, from quotidian uses to labour movements to the first computer. Likewise, any material, whether found or constructed, contains embedded meanings. From a platform of material-based critical inquiry, graduate students in this program investigate, respond, interpret, and expand the field of contemporary fibres.The MFA in Studio Arts, Fibres and Material Practices concentration, is an inherently interdisciplinary program of study that will allow you to cultivate your individual research focus or conceptual framework. You will be free to draw from traditional textile methods, modern tools and technologies, performance or time-based media, or invent new creative strategies. You will work under the supervision of our acclaimed faculty to thoroughly investigate materiality and form while analyzing issues and ideas relevant to your research.Our state-of-the-art facilities are divided into three technical areas dedicated to printing and dyeing, paper-making, and structures, as well as a fibres computer lab. You may also choose to engage with researchers at Concordia’s Milieux Institute: Textiles and Materiality Research Cluster.  Montreal’s vibrant arts scene also offers opportunities for you to be involved with artist-run centres committed to the medium of fibres as a material or concept.Since our department is comprised of seven disciplinary programs, you’ll be in the company of students working in film production, intermedia, painting and drawing, photography, print media and sculpture. This dynamic learning environment, as well as the larger university community, will encourage you to consider interdisciplinary approaches as you develop your artwork.Requirements for the DegreeAdmission Requirements. A Bachelor of Fine Arts or a Bachelor of Arts with a Fine Arts or Fine Arts and Art History major, or an approved equivalent, from a recognized institution and with at least a B average in the major area is required. Applicants to the Film Production concentration are expected to have a Bachelor of Fine Arts or Bachelor of Arts degree in cinema or an approved equivalent with at least a B average in the major area. In all cases the students’ undergraduate experience and proficiency must be relevant to the area in which they plan to specialize at the graduate level.Note: Students with a BFA from Concordia University must wait two (2) years before being considered for admission into the MFA program.Please apply online and see the how-to-guide for application procedures. Visit the department website for application and portfolio requirements.During the first two years of the program, students combine seminar courses with independent, supervised studio practice. The third year is devoted to studio practice and production.See the program structure and consult the graduate calendar for a complete list of current courses.A limited number of Teaching Assistantships are automatically assigned to registered students in the 1st and 2nd year of study. Graduate students can apply to teach a select number of undergraduate courses in their third year of study. These positions are awarded on a competitive basis. These opportunities also provide valuable experience for our graduate students, many of whom are interested in pursuing teaching careers.Employment opportunities also exist as Research Assistants in university and faculty research centres such as the Milieux Insitute for Arts, Culture and Technology or the Milieux Institute: Textiles and Materiality Research Cluster.Please also consult Concordia’s graduate funding page and Financial Aid and Awards.Graduate students work in individual studios in the VA and EV buildings and have access to various other research centres. They also have access to a variety of installation spaces, specialized equipment, and the Core Technical Centres.  The Fibres & Material Practices facilities are fully equipped, spacious and located in sunlit studios on the 9th floor of the EV building. You’ll have access to:Read more about our fibres and material practices facilities.Review an inspiring gallery of student works and read about some of our exceptional graduate students.Our alumni find success in a wide range of professional art careers. Many operate independent studios, exhibit and sell their work around the world, participate in artist residencies, and earn significant grants and international awards. Graduates also pursue careers as educators, curators, writers, entrepreneurs, and gallery arts administrators.Email: MFA.StudioArts@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 4607Location: 
 1395 René Lévesque Blvd. W.,  VA 250-6
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 2M5Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityStudio Arts, Fibres and Material Practices (MFA)Degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Funding
                
            
                
					
                    Facilities
                
            
                
					
                    Emerging ideas – student projects
                
            
                
					
                    Your professional future
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a master's of Studio Arts, Fibres and Material Practices?Program DetailsRelated ProgramsMaster of Fine Arts (MFA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424