http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/studio-arts/student-life/graduate-student-work/film-production.html© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFilm ProductionDepartment of Studio Arts
            
                Department of Studio ArtsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/studio-arts/programs/graduate/film-production.htmlThe MFA in Studio Arts is a professional terminal degree. The MFA Program appeals to practicing artists who wish to refine personal content and forms through critical inquiry, experimentation and innovation. Alumni are recognized as multidisciplinary artist-researchers working at the vanguard of their respective practices.The Film Production concentration is a three year, full-time program that champions an expanded notion of cinema. It encourages media-makers to explore diverse theoretical frameworks, processes and methodologies of contemporary moving image practices. The MFA Program values the importance of critical inquiry and relies heavily on intellectual exchange. Students receive regular feedback from artist-researchers in the department and faculty. Theory and studio seminars provide an important forum for students to discuss and investigate issues and concerns. Review committees composed of faculty, studio arts graduates and invited artist-critics provide a focused response to studio work and prepare students for their concluding project and defense.The concentration promotes formal exploration and technical innovation across diverse media including animation, film, digital video and time-based installation. You will benefit from the School’s broad network of affiliations with private-sector organizations and artist-run centers.The Film Production concentration is offered by the Department of Studio Arts in conjunction with the Mel Hoppenheim School of Cinema. For Film Production faculty profiles, please visit the Mel Hoppenheim School of Cinema's page faculty page.
 Read more: why do your master's at Concordia.Academic RegulationsAdmission Requirements. A Bachelor of Fine Arts or a Bachelor of Arts with a Fine Arts or Fine Arts and Art History major, or an approved equivalent, from a recognized institution and with at least a B average in the major area is required. Applicants to the Film Production concentration are expected to have a Bachelor of Fine Arts or Bachelor of Arts degree in cinema or an approved equivalent with at least a B average in the major area. In all cases the students’ undergraduate experience and proficiency must be relevant to the area in which they plan to specialize at the graduate level.Note: Students with a BFA from Concordia University must wait two (2) years before being considered for admission into the MFA program.For application instructions, including directions for your letter of intent and what to include in your portfolio, please visit our how to apply section.The MFA in Studio Arts is composed of discipline-specific studio classes and academic seminars in art criticism, history and theory, which are augmented by workshops, visiting artist lectures and special projects.Core studio projects form the backbone of the program, offering an opportunity for rigorous disciplinary investigation and a forum to debate issues relevant to the student’s personal practice. Core classes meet weekly during the first two years of the program under the supervision of faculty who are engaged in a diverse range of studio art practices and research activities.At the end of each term students present their work to a review committee composed of faculty, invited artists, curators and critics.Practice-led inquiry is contextualized by critical seminars that provide an interdisciplinary conceptual framework for the development of ideas in relation to creative practice. Seminar topics vary regularly to reflect the shifting nature of contemporary art and culture.Past seminar topics include Living Art: Actions, Interventions, Performance; The Cinematic; Reading Around Deleuze; Quebec Independent Cinema; The Roots of Contemporary Art; Contemporary Art and Aesthetic Judgment; Video Performance-The Body as Site in Video Art; Thinking Through Sound; Art, Place and Public Space and Artist as Researcher.
 While Concordia offers among the most affordable tuition fees in North America, we recognize the financial burden graduate studies can place on students. Along with the available bursaries and awards listed below, you may have the opportunity to work as a paid assistant to some of the leading artist researchers within our faculty. You also may be eligible for other support not specific to Studio Arts.Read about graduate funding opportunities.  You will have access to an extensive range of cutting-edge facilities and resources through:In addition, the Mel Hoppenheim School of Cinema provides access to key legacy medium equipment. You will benefit from the School’s broad network of affiliations with private-sector organizations and artist-run centers.The Film Production concentration is offered by the Department of Studio Arts in conjunction with the Mel Hoppenheim School of Cinema.Graduate students may apply for teaching assistantships at the Mel Hoppenheim School of Cinema. Opportunities are available to teach or co-teach courses and studio practices in the undergraduate film program. Available positions are assigned on a competitive basis to third year MFA students.Studio Arts MFA OfficeMaureen Kennedy, MFA Program Assistant
514-848-2424 ext. 4607
Fax: 514-848-4532mfa.studioarts@concordia.ca© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFilm Production (MFA)Department of Studio Arts
            
                Department of Studio Arts
            Program detailsKey resourcesJoin the conversationContact usDegree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Funding and awards
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty and student research interests
                
            
                
					
                    Facilities
                
            
                
					
                    Assistantships and internshipsWhy pursue a Master of Fine Arts in Film Production?Master of Fine Arts (MFA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Application process