http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/undergraduate/business-certificates/foundations.htmlThis 30-credit undergraduate certificate program caters to students who wish to develop the necessary background for further study in undergraduate degree programs in Business. It also may be of interest to students whose preference is to follow a short program of study or to learn important foundations for business studies.Students who are admitted to the Certificate and wish to continue in a degree program should apply for admission to that program within the first 30 credits.Foundation courses for businessBusiness coursesNote: Courses marked with an asterisk (*) do not count for credit toward a JMSB Bachelor’s degree (BComm & BAdmin). Students intending to transfer to a JMSB Bachelor’s degree program should not register for these courses.Applicants to the JMSB Certificate in Foundations for Business program must meet the minimum English language proficiency requirements for study at the University, and also must demonstrate a minimum level of academic achievement equivalent to the following education systems.Cegep applicants completing any Diplôme d’études collégiales (DEC) must achieve a minimum overall CRC of 23.00. There is no specific mathematics requirement.Once applicants are admitted based on their overall CRC score, admitted students may be awarded course exemptions in the following Cegep courses:Applicants must be completing grade 12 in Canada with a minimum overall average of 70% in the required number of senior-level grade 12 courses. There is no specific mathematics requirement.All applicants must have completed the required mathematics and English courses (or French if they attended a French-language school) and must meet the requirements to graduate in their home province or territory.Applicants must be completing grade 12 with a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.60 (on a 4.30 scale). There is no specific mathematics requirement. Final grade 11 and mid-term grade 12 results are used to calculate admissions averages.Advanced Placement (AP) courses will only be assessed once the applicant’s file is complete. SAT or ACT scores are not required for admission; admissions is based solely on high school grades. A GED is not accepted in lieu of a high school diploma.Applicants from the International Baccalaureate (IB) diploma program must achieve an overall predicted score of 27 points. There is no specific mathematics requirement.

A test of English proficiency may also be required.

* Applicants who have completed higher level (HL) mathematics may be eligible for course exemptions upon admission, though not advanced credit.Applicants must have completed the Baccalauréat with an overall score of 12/20 on their first attempt. There is no specific mathematics requirement.Applicants are assessed on their academic performance in the three trimesters of Première and first trimester of Terminale.

A test of English proficiency may also be required.

* Applicants who have completed série économique et sociale (ES) option mathematiques or série scientifique (S) mathematics may be eligible for course exemptions upon admission, though not advanced credit.Applicants from countries and education systems not specified above are generally admissible if they meet the academic and English-language proficiency requirements for admission to Concordia University, provided they achieve at least average overall grades in their home country. This would translate roughly to a 2.60 CGPA (on a 4.30 scale) or equivalent.In most cases, final grade 11 and mid-term grade 12 results are used to calculate admissions averages. A test of English proficiency may also be required.Concordia students interested in the Certificate in Foundations for Business must submit a new application to the university for either the Fall or Winter terms. The following admissions information is valid for all Concordia degree transfers, certificate and independent students.Internal applicants must have completed a minimum of 12 credits at Concordia with a cumulative GPA of 2.00. There is no specific mathematics requirement. Completed university courses must have a minimum grade of "C-" to qualify for transfer credit in a JMSB program.*Applicants in Failed Standing are subject to additional requirements.Admission as a mature student may be granted to Canadian Citizens or Permanent Residents, subject to the following conditions:Applicants must be 21 years of age by August 1 (for the following Fall term admissions) or December 1 (for the following Winter term admissions).A test of English proficiency may also be required.For an overview of how to apply, view Concordia's Undergraduate admission steps.Ready to start your application? Apply now online.Information valid as at November 2016 – Subject to change without noticeTel: 514-848-2424, ext. 2721
Fax: 514-848-2822
study.jmsb@concordia.ca© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityCertificate in Foundations for BusinessJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessApplicants from Quebec Cegeps
                
            
                
					
                    Applicants from Canadian high schools
                
            
                
					
                    Applicants from United States high schools
                
            
                
					
                    Applicants from the International Baccalaureate program
                
            
                
					
                    Applicants from the Baccalauréat Français program
                
            
                
					
                    Applicants from other universities & international high schools
                
            
                
					
                    Internal applicants from other Concordia programs
                
            
                
					
                    Applicants to the 48-credit mature-entry option (MEP)Certificate courses (30 credits)Admission requirements
How to applyContact usConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Admission CriteriaPotential Course Exemptions