http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/education/programs/graduate.htmlAs a centre of innovation and excellence in both teaching and research, the Department of Education meets the challenges of the future through its widely recognized degree programs at the graduate level. Graduate studies at Concordia are sustained by an intensive program of faculty research and publication, supported by a healthy level of external funding. We try to offer opportunities to work closely as part of a research team to as many of our graduate students as possible, and through teaching assistantships, some students work closely with professors to further develop their professional skills.The Graduate Student Resource Center is a space dedicated exclusively to our graduate students, offering them a place to make and call their own.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityGraduate programsDepartment of Education
            
                Department of Education
            Doctoral programMasters' programsGraduate diplomasCertificate programsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/studio-arts/programs/graduate.htmlThe MFA in Studio Arts represents the culmination of academic training in the visual arts. Alongside exemplary production skills within a given medium, our graduate students develop sophisticated understandings of the conceptual underpinnings of their work; of the social significance of their activities; and of the historical lineage and antecedents of their ideas.The MFA in Studio Arts is a three-year disciplinary program within the context of a pluralist theoretical framework. Challenge yourself in a studio-oriented environment of rigorous critical inquiry.Your residency includes seminar courses and individual studio experimentation in the first two years of the program. The residency requirement consists of five consecutive terms of full-time study:Once the residency requirement is complete, you will focus on the development and defense of your graduating project, a mature body of work produced under the mentorship of a faculty advisor. During this final year of study, you may also apply for a limited number of teaching assignments reserved for graduate students.As a Studio Arts graduate student, you will have access to Concordia’s many state-of-the-art facilities.Take note of these essential resources. You'll need to use this information when you apply.  © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityGraduate programsDepartment of Studio Arts
            
                Department of Studio ArtsMFA Student galleries
MFA Program concentrations
Residency requirement & facilitiesThe essentialsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate.html© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityGraduate programsJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessMBA programsResearch graduate programsProfessional graduate programsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/admissions/tuition-fees/how-fees-are-billed/graduate.htmlThe University reserves the right to modify the published scale of tuition and other student fees without prior notice. This document contains the most current information on the University's Financial Regulations and Fees and is the authoritative document regarding the University's financial regulations as well as the billing of tuition and compulsory fees.Each Master's and PhD program has a nominal number of academic credits that must be successfully completed in order for the student to graduate from that program. Master's degree programs have 45, 57 or 60 nominal credits; and PhD programs have 90 nominal credits.Each program of study has an academic time limit which is a specified number of academic terms in which the student must successfully complete all degree requirements and apply to graduate. This information is available in more detail on the Graduate Calendar webpage.Tuition and compulsory fees are billed when a student is enrolled in a Master's or PhD program and is registered for a credit course or a course notation, e.g. CIP, STOQ, etc. The first registration in a student's Master's or PhD program, in either a credit course or a Continuing in Program (CIP) course notation will trigger the start of the fee billing process.Fees are billed on the basis ofTuition and compulsory fees are chargedThe maximum number of credits billed per term may not change when a student applies for, and is granted, a change in their admission/enrolment status:Full-Time to Part-Time StatusPart-Time to Full-Time StatusIn both instances, the student's academic time limit will be adjusted.A deficiency course is a course which must be taken in addition to the nominal credits in a student's program and does not apply to the degree program. Deficiency credits may include graduate or undergraduate courses.Tuition and compulsory fees are charged on each prerequisite and deficiency registered course credit, in addition to the nominal credits in the degree program.Once the tuition and compulsory fees for the nominal credits in a student's program have been billed, the student will continue to be charged "other" compulsory fees each term until the continuation fees are charged as follows:Once the student has completed the total number of terms within the academic time limit and has not yet met the degree requirements in order to graduate, the student may apply to their Graduate Program Director for an academic time limit extension (TLE). If a TLE is granted, a TLE fee plus compulsory fees will be charged in each TLE term.Students who successfully complete their Master's or Ph.D. program degree requirements before all tuition and compulsory fees for their program of study have been billed will be charged the balance of their program's tuition and compulsory fees once they apply for graduation.Applicable to students admitted to a Master's or PhD program as of the 2010/1 summer term.Master's and PhD student are permitted to register for a maximum of 3 course credits, in addition to the nominal credits in their degree program, without additional charge. All course/thesis credits "registered/attempted" 1, will be charged tuition and compulsory fees on a "per credit" basis. Attempted credits can be charged in addition to or concurrently with, the tuition and compulsory fees charged on the nominal program credits or, while being assessed continuation/time-limit extension fees. Additional course credits will be charged in any term where a registration increases the total number of credits registered, to more than the 3 allowable additional course credits. Courses that cannot be applied to the student's degree program are considered to be "elective" or 'cours hors programme' and are charged tuition and compulsory fees on a "per credit" basis. These fees are charged in addition to, and concurrently with, the tuition and compulsory fees charged on nominal program credits, continuation and compulsory fees, or time limit extension and compulsory fees.Courses not taken for credit are registered under a student’s Master’s or PhD program and an Audit grade is recorded to the student’s record. Audited courses are charged tuition and compulsory fees on a “per credit” basis. These fees are charged in addition to, and concurrently with, the tuition and compulsory fees charged on nominal program credits, continuation and compulsory fees, or time limit extension and compulsory fees.Students in all faculties may, with appropriate approval, change options in their master's degree. In these cases, all of the academic activities in the original program are considered to be continuous with the second program. Effective summer 2013, all approved transfers between ENCS programs at the master's level are considered option changes for the purposes of this regulation.Upon an option change, the academic time limit is not extended and will continue to be counted from the term of admission to the original program of study. The student record will reflect the option change by an option change notation; or for ENCS transfers, the transferal of all graded courses into the new program. In ENCS, courses with DISC/MED notations are not transferred or credited financially to the new program.Financially, tuition and compulsory fees paid in the original program are credited to the new program of study and are not forfeited provided that registration is continuous and in consecutive terms.Examples of such option changes include:Program transfers between the Master's in Business Administration (MBA programs) and the Diploma in Chartered Accountancy are exceptions, provided the student has completed the Diploma program requirements and (that is, the degree/diploma has not been conferred.)Upon official withdrawal from the Diploma in Chartered Accountancy programs, up to a maximum of 30 credits are transferred to the MBA program and are not forfeited. The transfer of program must be processed within 2 years (6 academic terms) from the last registration in the original program of study.When a Concordia graduate degree program student transfers to a different Master's or PhD within Concordia, financial credits equal to the number of academic credits transferred to the new program but not exceeding the tuition and compulsory fees paid in the original program will be granted. This does not apply to transfers to or from graduate privatized programs.Accelerated admission (fast tracking) describes a process whereby exceptional students are admitted to PhD programs without a Master’s degree in the same discipline. Students who follow this process must show high academic performance or potential evidenced by an outstanding GPA, appropriate research publications in a field of study, a research topic at the Master’s level which is advanced enough for a doctoral thesis proposal, or other similar demonstrations of achievement. Students who areORare expected to complete the course component of a Master’s (Thesis option) program in the same discipline in addition to the standard academic requirements for the doctoral program.Since this is a new admission, the PhD program Academic Time Limit and nominal fees billed begin anew. All nominal fees billed in the Master's program are non-transferable and will not be applied to the PhD.Students who have not completed a Master's degree and are admitted directly to a Concordia PhD program may be required to take a course(s) in addition to their PhD program requirements. All pre-requisite and deficiency course credits are registered under a Qualifying Program and are charged tuition and compulsory fees on a “per credit” basis.A leave of absence from a program of study may have implications for students receiving awards, loans and bursaries.With respect to medical coverage while on an approved leave of absence:As the (study) visa status of International students may possibly be affected by a leave, they are advised to visit the International Students Office for further information.Access to University services while on leave© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityGraduateHow fees are billed1. Master's and PhD program billing structure - overview2. How and when fees are billed - overview3. Prerequisite and deficiency course fees4. Continuation fees5. Time limit extension and other fees6. Balance of program fees charged at Graduation7. Courses that do not apply towards the student's degree requirements8. "Elective" and 'Hors programme' courses9. Audit course fees10. Option changes at the Master's level11. Program to program transfers12. Special degree transfers (new admission)13. Admission to a PhD program with an incomplete Master's degree14. Leave of absence from programConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/admissions/tuition-fees/how-fees-are-billed/graduate.htmlThe University reserves the right to modify the published scale of tuition and other student fees without prior notice. This document contains the most current information on the University's Financial Regulations and Fees and is the authoritative document regarding the University's financial regulations as well as the billing of tuition and compulsory fees.Each Master's and PhD program has a nominal number of academic credits that must be successfully completed in order for the student to graduate from that program. Master's degree programs have 45, 57 or 60 nominal credits; and PhD programs have 90 nominal credits.Each program of study has an academic time limit which is a specified number of academic terms in which the student must successfully complete all degree requirements and apply to graduate. This information is available in more detail on the Graduate Calendar webpage.Tuition and compulsory fees are billed when a student is enrolled in a Master's or PhD program and is registered for a credit course or a course notation, e.g. CIP, STOQ, etc. The first registration in a student's Master's or PhD program, in either a credit course or a Continuing in Program (CIP) course notation will trigger the start of the fee billing process.Fees are billed on the basis ofTuition and compulsory fees are chargedThe maximum number of credits billed per term may not change when a student applies for, and is granted, a change in their admission/enrolment status:Full-Time to Part-Time StatusPart-Time to Full-Time StatusIn both instances, the student's academic time limit will be adjusted.A deficiency course is a course which must be taken in addition to the nominal credits in a student's program and does not apply to the degree program. Deficiency credits may include graduate or undergraduate courses.Tuition and compulsory fees are charged on each prerequisite and deficiency registered course credit, in addition to the nominal credits in the degree program.Once the tuition and compulsory fees for the nominal credits in a student's program have been billed, the student will continue to be charged "other" compulsory fees each term until the continuation fees are charged as follows:Once the student has completed the total number of terms within the academic time limit and has not yet met the degree requirements in order to graduate, the student may apply to their Graduate Program Director for an academic time limit extension (TLE). If a TLE is granted, a TLE fee plus compulsory fees will be charged in each TLE term.Students who successfully complete their Master's or Ph.D. program degree requirements before all tuition and compulsory fees for their program of study have been billed will be charged the balance of their program's tuition and compulsory fees once they apply for graduation.Applicable to students admitted to a Master's or PhD program as of the 2010/1 summer term.Master's and PhD student are permitted to register for a maximum of 3 course credits, in addition to the nominal credits in their degree program, without additional charge. All course/thesis credits "registered/attempted" 1, will be charged tuition and compulsory fees on a "per credit" basis. Attempted credits can be charged in addition to or concurrently with, the tuition and compulsory fees charged on the nominal program credits or, while being assessed continuation/time-limit extension fees. Additional course credits will be charged in any term where a registration increases the total number of credits registered, to more than the 3 allowable additional course credits. Courses that cannot be applied to the student's degree program are considered to be "elective" or 'cours hors programme' and are charged tuition and compulsory fees on a "per credit" basis. These fees are charged in addition to, and concurrently with, the tuition and compulsory fees charged on nominal program credits, continuation and compulsory fees, or time limit extension and compulsory fees.Courses not taken for credit are registered under a student’s Master’s or PhD program and an Audit grade is recorded to the student’s record. Audited courses are charged tuition and compulsory fees on a “per credit” basis. These fees are charged in addition to, and concurrently with, the tuition and compulsory fees charged on nominal program credits, continuation and compulsory fees, or time limit extension and compulsory fees.Students in all faculties may, with appropriate approval, change options in their master's degree. In these cases, all of the academic activities in the original program are considered to be continuous with the second program. Effective summer 2013, all approved transfers between ENCS programs at the master's level are considered option changes for the purposes of this regulation.Upon an option change, the academic time limit is not extended and will continue to be counted from the term of admission to the original program of study. The student record will reflect the option change by an option change notation; or for ENCS transfers, the transferal of all graded courses into the new program. In ENCS, courses with DISC/MED notations are not transferred or credited financially to the new program.Financially, tuition and compulsory fees paid in the original program are credited to the new program of study and are not forfeited provided that registration is continuous and in consecutive terms.Examples of such option changes include:Program transfers between the Master's in Business Administration (MBA programs) and the Diploma in Chartered Accountancy are exceptions, provided the student has completed the Diploma program requirements and (that is, the degree/diploma has not been conferred.)Upon official withdrawal from the Diploma in Chartered Accountancy programs, up to a maximum of 30 credits are transferred to the MBA program and are not forfeited. The transfer of program must be processed within 2 years (6 academic terms) from the last registration in the original program of study.When a Concordia graduate degree program student transfers to a different Master's or PhD within Concordia, financial credits equal to the number of academic credits transferred to the new program but not exceeding the tuition and compulsory fees paid in the original program will be granted. This does not apply to transfers to or from graduate privatized programs.Accelerated admission (fast tracking) describes a process whereby exceptional students are admitted to PhD programs without a Master’s degree in the same discipline. Students who follow this process must show high academic performance or potential evidenced by an outstanding GPA, appropriate research publications in a field of study, a research topic at the Master’s level which is advanced enough for a doctoral thesis proposal, or other similar demonstrations of achievement. Students who areORare expected to complete the course component of a Master’s (Thesis option) program in the same discipline in addition to the standard academic requirements for the doctoral program.Since this is a new admission, the PhD program Academic Time Limit and nominal fees billed begin anew. All nominal fees billed in the Master's program are non-transferable and will not be applied to the PhD.Students who have not completed a Master's degree and are admitted directly to a Concordia PhD program may be required to take a course(s) in addition to their PhD program requirements. All pre-requisite and deficiency course credits are registered under a Qualifying Program and are charged tuition and compulsory fees on a “per credit” basis.A leave of absence from a program of study may have implications for students receiving awards, loans and bursaries.With respect to medical coverage while on an approved leave of absence:As the (study) visa status of International students may possibly be affected by a leave, they are advised to visit the International Students Office for further information.Access to University services while on leave© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityGraduateHow fees are billed1. Master's and PhD program billing structure - overview2. How and when fees are billed - overview3. Prerequisite and deficiency course fees4. Continuation fees5. Time limit extension and other fees6. Balance of program fees charged at Graduation7. Courses that do not apply towards the student's degree requirements8. "Elective" and 'Hors programme' courses9. Audit course fees10. Option changes at the Master's level11. Program to program transfers12. Special degree transfers (new admission)13. Admission to a PhD program with an incomplete Master's degree14. Leave of absence from programConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424