http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/graduation-convocation/honorary-degrees/honorary-degree-recipients-2016.htmlJoan Wallach Scott has taught at the University of Illinois, Chicago; Northwestern University; the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill; and Brown University where she was the founding director of the Pembroke Center for Teaching and Research on Women. In 1985, she joined the faculty of the School of Social Science at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey.  She became Professor Emerita in 2014.  Scott’s work has challenged the foundations of conventional historical practice, including the nature of historical evidence and historical experience.  Drawing on a range of philosophical thought, as well as on a rethinking of her own training as a labor historian, she has contributed to the formulation of a field of critical history.  Written more than thirty years ago, her now classic article, "Gender: A Useful Category of Historical Analysis," continues to inspire innovative research on women and gender.  Her scholarly work has been concerned with the ways in which difference poses problems for democratic practice.  She has taken up this question in her books: Only Paradoxes to Offer: French Feminists and the Rights of Man (1996); Parité: Sexual Equality and the Crisis of French Universalism (2005); and The Politics of the Veil (2007).  She has extended her work on the veil to examine the relationship between secularism and gender equality—her current research project.  She has also published a collection of her essays that deals with the uses of psychoanalysis, particularly fantasy, for historical interpretation, The Fantasy of Feminist History (2011).Scott is a founding editor of History of the Present: a journal of critical history.  Among her many honors from the American Historical Association are the Joan Kelly prize for Gender and the Politics of History (1988); the Nancy Lyman Roelker Mentorship Award for Graduate Teaching (1999) and the award for Scholarly Distinction (2009).  She won the Hans Sigrist Prize from the University of Bern (Switzerland) in 2006 for outstanding research in Gender Studies.  In 2009, the Middle East Studies Association presented her with their Academic Freedom Award. Scott has served for many years on the American Association of University Professor’s Committee on Academic Freedom and Tenure.   In recognition of the range and import of her work, Edward Said once called her “an exemplary engaged public intellectual for our time.”  Sherry Turkle is the Abby Rockefeller Mauzé Professor of the Social Studies of Science and Technology in the Program in Science, Technology, and Society at MIT. Professor Turkle received an A.B. in Social Studies and a joint doctorate in sociology and personality psychology from Harvard University and is a licensed clinical psychologist.  Her newest book is the New York Times bestseller, Reclaiming Conversation: The Power of Talk in a Digital Age (Penguin Press, October 2015), which investigates how a flight from conversation undermines our relationships, creativity, and productivity.           Previous works include a trilogy on our evolving relationships in digital culture, The Second Self, Alone Together, and Life on the Screen, as well as works and edited collections on how we use objects to think with, particularly in the development of ideas about science: Simulation and Its Discontents, Evocative Objects, Falling for Science, and The Inner History of Devices.Turkle is a recipient of a Guggenheim Fellowship, a Rockefeller Humanities Fellowship, the Harvard Centennial Medal, and is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.Nora D. Volkow, M.D., is the Director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) at NIH. Her scientific work, which is based on brain imaging, has been instrumental in demonstrating that drug addiction is a disease of the human brain that affects not only reward centers, but also the frontal brain regions involved with self regulation and control. She pioneered the use of brain imaging to investigate the toxic effects of drugs, including the demonstration that cocaine impairs the cerebral circulation in the human brain. She has also made important contributions to the neurobiology of obesity, ADHD, and aging.Dr. Volkow was born in Mexico and earned her medical degree from the National University of Mexico, where she received the Robins award for best medical student of her generation. Her psychiatric residency was at New York University, where she earned the Laughlin Fellowship Award as one of the 10 Outstanding Psychiatric Residents in the USA.Dr. Volkow spent most of her research career at Brookhaven National Laboratory in New York, where she was Director of Nuclear Medicine, Chairman of the Medical Department, and Associate Director for Life Sciences, as well as a Professor in the Department of Psychiatry and Associate Dean of the Medical School at SUNY-Stony Brook.Dr. Volkow has published more than 650 peer-reviewed articles, written more than 95 book chapters and non-peer-reviewed manuscripts, and has also edited three books.She has received multiple awards, including membership in the National Academy of Medicine and the International Prize for Science from the French Institute of Health and Medical Research. She was named one of Time magazine’s “Top 100 People Who Shape Our World,” “One of the 20 People to Watch” by Newsweek magazine, and “Innovator of the Year” by U.S. News & World Report. His Excellency the Right Honourable David Johnston, the 28th Governor General of Canada, has dedicated his life to public service. A strong believer in both equality of opportunity and excellence, he spent most of his career in higher education as a professor and later administrator of several of Canada’s leading universities. His Excellency has focused his mandate on strengthening learning and innovation, philanthropy and volunteerism, and families and children. Since his installation as governor general in October 2010, His Excellency has travelled widely across Canada and around the world, connecting, honouring and inspiring Canadians and their global partners. Arlene Dickinson is one of Canada’s most respected business leaders, and is at the forefront of the country’s entrepreneurial movement. Originally born in South Africa and raised in Calgary, Arlene got her start in business by joining Venture Communications in 1988. In ten short years, she took sole ownership of the agency and grew it from a small, local shop in the Prairies to one of the nation’s largest independent marketing and communications firms. Between Venture’s offices in Calgary and Toronto, her team of marketing professionals maintain a blue-chip client list, including the likes of Toyota, Scotiabank, and Tourism Calgary.In 2014, Arlene decided to focus Venture on helping entrepreneurs and entrepreneurial organizations. This repositioning led to the addition of several new clients to Venture’s roster, like MaRS Innovation, FYIdoctors, and SoCIAL Lite Vodka.After receiving a number of honours, including Calgary Business Owner of the Year, PROFIT Magazine’s Top 100 Women Business Owners, the Pinnacle Award for Entrepreneurial Excellence, and Canada’s Most Powerful Women Top 100, Arlene was asked to become a venture capitalist on the hit CBC show, Dragons’ Den. Over the course of eight seasons, she’d demonstrate her business savvy by making several successful investments, and become a household name in Canada.In 2014, Arlene set out to create an organization that helped entrepreneurs succeed, so she left the den to open the District Ventures Accelerator. With a focus on innovative companies in the CPG industry, District Ventures is the first accelerator of its kind in Canada. In just six months, District Ventures has connected its members to over 1000 hours of mentorship with industry leaders, over $1 million in capital funding, and a handful of national distribution deals. Arlene is also the CEO of YouInc.com, an online platform that connects entrepreneurs to resources and celebrates the entrepreneurial lifestyle.She is the author of All In and Persuasion, two national best-selling books, that provide a humanizing perspective on the professional and personal lives of entrepreneurs. Her leadership has been recognized by the Royal Canadian Navy, who named her an honorary Captain, and her business acumen has garnered her honorary degrees from Mount Saint Vincent University, Saint Mary’s University, and the Northern Alberta Institute of Technology.Arlene sits on the Leadership Council of the Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics, and several boards including the Omers Venture advisory board. She is a proud recipient of the Queen Elizabeth II Diamond Jubilee Medal.When Arlene isn’t on the lookout for the next great Canadian idea, a quick scan of her Instagram reveals a love for travel, fashion, and her five grandchildren.Garrett Herman joined LOM Limited in 1990, following an extensive career with Merrill Lynch Canada. While at Merrill, he held a number of progressive positions including Manager of Institutional Equity and Research, Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer, Head of Private Client Division, as well as Member of the Board of Directors. He served as Senior Vice President and Director for the Equity Division at Merrill, responsible for all Institutional Sales and Trading, Research, Syndication and Capital Commitments.At LOM, Herman was Chairman of the MS gala and auction to benefit the Multiple Sclerosis Society of Canada, an event that started in 1994 and ran for 15 years. He was a Director-at-Large of the Multiple Sclerosis Society of Canada, Director of the MS Scientific Research Foundation and a member of the cabinet for the EndMS Campaign. He was also a Transitional Award donor. Herman also holds positions as Chairman of the Galapagos Conservancy Canada, formerly called the Charles Darwin Foundation of Canada. He is a Director of Grapes for Humanity, as well as the Grapes for Humanity Foundation.Herman was a member of the Consular Corps of Ontario. He is also a past president of the Canada Sri Lanka Business Council and is a past Honorary Consul for the People’s Republic of Bangladesh. He is a member of The Association Internationale de Bibliophiles (Paris).Herman has a BA from Sir George Williams University, is a fellow of the Canadian Securities Institute (F.C.S.I) and has a Honorary Doctor of Letters (D.Litt) from the University of Edinburgh.Pierre Lassonde co-founded Franco-Nevada Mining Corporation in 1982.  Over the next 20 years Franco provided shareholders with a 36% annualized rate of return.  The company was acquired by Newmont Mining Corp in February 2002 and Pierre became President and Vice Chairman in 2007.  He served as Chairman of the World Gold Council from 2005 to 2009. In 2008, Lassonde led an investors group bringing back Franco-Nevada to the public market with a $1.2B IPO and became its Chairman.  The current market capitalization of Franco-Nevada is over $5B. Lassonde’s philanthropic interest in education and the arts is well known.  He has been Chairman of the Quebec National Art Museum since 2005.  In July 2015 Mr. Lassonde was appointed Chair of the Board of the Canada Council for the Arts.He was made a Member of the Order of Canada in 2002 and Officer of the Quebec Order in 2008.  Lassonde was inducted into the Canadian Mining Hall of Fame in January 2013.BA, BSc, U of Montreal 1971, MBA U. of Utah 1973, P.Eng 1976, CFA 1984, Hon PhD Engineering U of Toronto, Montreal, Ryerson, Hon PhD Business, U of Utah, Hon.D.Law, York University, June 2014 and Western University June 2015.  Aaron M. Fish was the recipient of the “Lifetime of Outstanding Achievement" award from The Associated Locksmiths of America and the "Entrepreneur of the Year" award from the Quebec government, the Bank of Montreal and various investment firms. He is the creator of the first electrically supervised mechanical push-button lock and the founder and former Chair and CEO of Unican Security Systems Ltd.After leaving high school in 1949 armed with early training in his father's locksmith shop, the 17- year-old entrepreneur started Canadian Key and Lock Supply (his locksmith-distributor uncle provided mentoring and a $100 line of credit).  As his expertise, reputation, and contacts grew, Bell Canada approached him with a request to develop a keyless lock for their facilities. In 1964, the Unican mechanical pushbutton lock was launched.Unican Security Systems Ltd. became a world leader in key blanks, key duplicating machines, safe and vault locks, mechanical pushbutton locks, and electronic access controls. With its corporate headquarters in Montreal, Quebec, and factories in Canada, the United States, France, Germany, Italy, Mexico, and Switzerland, Unican supplied locksmiths, hotels, businesses, governments, OEM customers, and hardware stores in more than 150 countries worldwide.The major growth of what was known as the Unican Group occurred over the last two decades. With subsidiaries and affiliates in 14 countries, Unican grew from a base of three employees with an annual income of $180 thousand, to more than 3,700 employees with sales in excess of $450 million worldwide in 1999.The Unican Group, Mr. Fish's life's work, was sold to a Swiss Company in April of 2001 and now is part of Kaba AG.  Mr. Fish continued on the Board of Directors of Kaba, until the mandatory retirement age of 70.In November 2015, the Associated Locksmiths of America (ALOA) opened a security training center in Dallas, TX with eight classrooms specializing in various parts of the security industry. The center is named The Aaron M. Fish Security Training Center.Mr. Fish is married and has seven children ranging from 30 to 60 years old and is looking forward to devoting more time to his family, special projects and his Foundation.One of Canada’s most successful film and TV producers, James Shavick began his career after graduating from the first class of Concordia’s (SGWU) film program. A hallmark of his distinguished career has been his support of Canada’s emerging film and television creators. He has mentored and employed a multitude of young producers - many of whom now form the backbone of film and television production in Western Canada and supported film programs across Canada.Originally from Montreal, it was natural that Shavick’s first feature would be set in Quebec. “Two Solitudes,” a landmark drama about the English-French conflict in his home province, quickly earned a reputation as a Canadian classic. Since then, Mr. Shavick has produced more than 500 hours of television – over 100 feature length television movies and 10 television series.   Many students graduating this spring would have grown up watching his successful television series on networks such as NBC, ABC and Fox Family Channel.  Shavick retains the singular distinction of being the only Canadian producer to ever have had two number one-rated shows in the United States.In 2005, James married former finance minister and prominent B.C. politician Joy MacPhail. In 2006, he became the majority shareholder and CEO of Canadian broadcaster OUTtv with Joy MacPhail as the Chair of the Board. OUTtv has recently launched an international video subscription service called GayDirect.Shavick’s philanthropic support includes educational and community organizations such as QMUNITY, Big Sisters, Face the World Foundation, Goodwill Industries, Adler University (Chicago/Vancouver) and The Palm Springs Museum. Capilano University’s film program is proud to have Shavick as a patron. © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityHonorary Degree RecipientsGraduation & convocation
            
                Graduation & convocation
            Spring 2016 Convocation CeremoniesRelated LinksArts and ScienceJohn Molson School of BusinessEngineering and Computer ScienceJoan Wallach Scott 
 June 6, 10:00 a.m.Sherry Turkle
 June 6, 3:00 p.m.Nora Volkow
 June 6, 7:30 p.m.His Excellency the Right Honourable David Johnston 
June 6, 7:30 p.m.Arlene Dickinson
 June 7, 10:00 a.m.Garrett Herman
 June 7, 3:00 p.m.Pierre Lassonde
 June 8, 10:00 a.m.Aaron Fish
 June 8, 3:00 p.m.James Shavick
 June 8, 7:30 p.m.Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424