http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/graduation-convocation/honorary-degrees/honorary-degree-recipients-2014-15.htmlSister Jacqueline St-Yves will accept the degree on behalf of the congregation of the Sisters of Charity (Grey Nuns) of Montreal, in recognition of the order’s work in healthcare, in the field of education, in spiritual leadership and in community service.

Founded in 1737 by Saint Marguerite d’Youville, the Grey Nuns congregation was established to care for the sick, the orphaned and the poor. It founded such major Montreal institutions as Hôpital Notre-Dame, Hôpital Maisonneuve-Rosemont and the Montreal Heart Institute. The nuns’ work in education and health care later took them to the United States, Africa and South America.

Sister St-Yves is currently fulfilling her second five-year mandate as the Grey Nuns’ congregational leader. She worked in teaching and hospital administration in Manitoba for 32 years before coming to Montreal in 1996, when she was elected Secretary General of the Congregation.

Sister St-Yves will receive the degree at the Faculty of Arts and Science convocation ceremony at 10 a.m. on Tuesday, October 28.
Michael Sabia, president and chief executive officer of the Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec, is being recognized for his community involvement and business leadership.

Prior to joining the Caisse, Sabia acted as president and CEO of Bell Canada Enterprises. He has previously occupied various roles with the Canadian National Railway Company (CN Rail) and spent a decade working as a senior official in the Government of Canada. Sabia’s service to the community includes work with the Centre hospitalier universitaire de Québec, Maison Saint-Gabriel, the Montreal Heart Institute Foundation and Centraide of Greater Montreal.

Sabia will receive his degree at the John Molson School of Business convocation ceremony at 3 p.m. on Tuesday, October 28.
Richard Stallman, president of the Free Software Foundation, is being honoured for his dedication to giving the users of computing the freedom to control what the programs they run actually do.Stallman launched the free software operating system GNU in 1984. Today, the GNU/Linux system is used on tens of millions of computers.

In 1989, Stallman founded the League for Programming Freedom, which campaigned against legal threats to programming, and principally to software patents. Stallman invented the technique known as “copyleft” (as opposed to “copyright”), which makes code or text free and requires subsequent works that incorporate a significant part of that code or text to be free in the same way.

Stallman is the recipient of numerous awards including a MacArthur Fellowship and, with Linus Torvalds, the 1998 Electronic Frontier Foundation Pioneer Award. In 2013, he was inducted into the Internet Hall of Fame, a recognition program and virtual museum that celebrates the living history of the internet and the individuals whose extraordinary contributions have made the internet, its worldwide availability and use, and its transformative nature possible.

Stallman will receive his degree at the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science and the Faculty of Fine Arts (combined) convocation ceremony at 7:30 p.m. on Tuesday, October 28.

Faculty of Arts & Science - Monday June 8, 3 p.m.Kenneth Deer is the current Secretary of the Mohawk Nation at Kahnawake. He began his career in education in 1972, spending 16 years in this field. During this time, he co-founded the First Nations Education Council, and in 1978 he helped to establish the Kahnawake Survival School, which continues to provide education steeped in Indigenous culture and heritage. A former Member of the Board of Directors of the Quebec Community Newspaper Association, Mr. Deer founded the Kahnawake-based daily newspaper The Eastern Door in 1992, also serving as its editor until 2008. As a political activist, Mr. Deer began working with the United Nations in 1987, as a Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples was being developed. He was the Chairman/Rapporteur of the United Nations Workshop on Indigenous Media in 2000, one of the first Indigenous persons to ever serve in such a position.A member of the Bear Clan, Kenneth grew up in Kahnawake. He participated in programs related to social and education counselling of Indigenous persons at the University of Toronto and the University of Sudbury. Faculty of Arts & Science - Monday June 8, 7:30 p.m.Christiana Figueres, Executive Secretary of the UN Climate Change secretariat, has a long and distinguished career in climate change and sustainability, having participated in the climate change negotiations since 1995.Ms. Figueres has worked extensively with governments, non-governmental organizations and has been a frequent advisor to the private sector. She has served on boards of many non-governmental organizations involved in climate change and made important contributions to the literature on the design of the climate solutions.Ms. Figueres holds a Master’s Degree in Anthropology from the London School of Economics, a certificate in Organizational Development from Georgetown University and an honorary Doctor of Law degree from the University of Massachusetts.  She was born in San José, Costa Rica and has two daughters.John Molson School of Business - Tuesday June 9, 10 a.m.Lino Saputo was born in Italy, in 1937, to Master Cheesemaker Giuseppe Saputo and his wife, Maria. The Saputo family immigrated to Canada in 1952, and two years later, founded the Company which bears their name. In 1969, succeeding his father, Lino Saputo was named Chairman of the Board and President of the Company. In 1997, Saputo completed its initial public offering. Lino became Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer in 1998. In 2004, his son Lino A. Saputo, Jr. was appointed to the position of President and Chief Executive Officer, while Lino Saputo remained Chairman of the Board. Lino Saputo was the recipient of an honorary doctorate from the Université de Montréal in June 2010. In May 2011, he was made an Officer of the National Order of Québec and in June 2012, was appointed Member of the Order of Canada. In November 2012, the Board of Trade of Metropolitan Montreal inducted Lino Saputo into the Academy of Great Montrealers. In May 2014, Lino Saputo was inducted into the Canadian Business Hall of Fame.John Molson School of Business - Tuesday June 9, 3 p.m.Anne-Marie Hubert has been Managing Partner of Advisory Services at Ernst & Young (EY) Canada and a member of the EY’s Executive Committee since 2009. She joined EY in 1985, climbing the ranks to become partner in 1998. She is a Member of the Board of the Fédération des chambres de commerce du Québec, which represents 60,000 Quebec businesses in the economic sector. Ms. Hubert also serves on the board the Public Policy Forum, the Canadian Chamber of Commerce and the Société des célébrations du 375e anniversaire de Montréal. From 2002 to 2006, she led EY’s gender equity initiatives in Canada, making extensive efforts to advance women in business. In 2004, Ms. Hubert was named a Fellow of the Ordre des comptables agréés du Québec, which recognizes outstanding achievements in the profession.Ms. Hubert graduated from University of Ottawa BA cum laude in Commerce in 1985 and earned her CA designation (now CPA) in 1987.Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science - Wednesday June 10, 3 p.m.Few Canadians have contributed more to the art and science of solar energy utilization and the associated energy conservation than Terry Hollands. His work is reflected in many related commercial products, and also in the computer codes engineers use to confidently design solar products. As a professor, he excelled in training graduate students; many of his former students have gone on to make important contributions to solar energy utilization and conservation and are leaders in the field.  With degrees in Engineering Physics ( BASc, University of Toronto) and in Chemical Engineering (PhD, McGill University), his career in solar energy dates back to 1961 when he joined the national labs of the Australian Government. In 1969 Dr. Hollands joined the University of Waterloo in the Department of Mechanical and Mechatronics Engineering. He served there until retirement in 2001, at which point he was honoured by being made Distinguished Professor Emeritus. An outstanding scholar, he has authored or co-authored 120 journal articles, 100 articles in conference proceeding, and several books, and he also served as editor-in-chief of the archival international journal Solar Energy. A Fellow of both the American and Canadian Societies of Mechanical Engineering, Dr. Hollands has received numerous awards and recognitions, including the Special Service Award of the International Solar Energy Society. Dr. Hollands served as Chair of the Board of Directors of the NSERC Solar Buildings Research Network and is currently Board Chair of the Board of the Smart Net-Zero Energy Buildings Strategic Research Network, a pan-Canadian, multi-university group that specializes in eco-friendly building research and solar energy. Both Networks are contributing to major advances of Canada in solar energy and building energy efficiency.Faculity of Fine Arts - Wednesday June 10, 7:30 p.m.One of the most prominent violin virtuosos of her generation, Angèle Dubeau has been leading an exceptional career for 38 years. She has played on the greatest international stages in over thirty countries and her musical trajectory remains unequalled. At the Conservatoire de Musique de Montréal, she obtained a Premier Prix in violin at age 15 and a Premier Prix in Chamber Music at age 16. These distinctions are both equivalent to a Master’s Degree in Music. She then pursued her studies at the Juilliard School of Music in New York, and then at the Bucharest Conservatory. She has garnered much praise and numerous national and international awards over the years.In 1997, Angèle Dubeau founded La Pietà, an all-female string orchestra. Convinced of the need to introduce classical music to a wider audience, she was a pioneer in programming and hosting gala concerts and weekly music television programs at Radio-Canada for over 20 years. In 1995, she founded the popular Fête de la Musique, a music festival in Mont-Tremblant that she has been directing since then.Today, the violinist continues her brilliant career and remains at the summit of the classical sales chart in North America. She is one of the rare classical musicians in the world to have sold over 500 000 albums in career.Born in Saint‑Norbert (QC), Angèle Dubeau is a Knight of the Ordre national du Québec and an Officer of the Order of Canada.Who do you think should get an honorary doctorate? Nominate Concordia’s next honorands© Concordia UniversityConcordia University2014-2015 recipientsGraduation & convocation
            
                Graduation & convocation
            Fall 2014 Convocation CeremoniesSpring 2015 Convocation CeremoniesRelated LinksKenneth DeerChristiana FigueresEmanuele (Lino) SaputoAnne-Marie HubertK.G. Terry HollandsAngèle DubeauConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424