http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/admissions/independent-students.htmlPlease submit a complete application by December 10, 2016 if you would like to be considered for courses beginning January 9, 2017.As an Independent Undergraduate Student, you do not seek a Degree or Certificate. You register in individual courses on a part-time basis (maximum of 3 courses per term).Depending on your goals, you may use Independent Status to explore different fields of study, to raise your Grade Point Average (GPA) or to complete prerequisites courses for admission to a bachelor’s degree. You can apply to become an Independent Undergraduate Student if:You are 21 years of age or older and are Canadian or a Permanent Resident.ORYou are under 21 years of age and are Canadian or a Permanent Resident and you meet the University’s minimum academic admission requirements.ORYou are an International student already in Montreal and you meet the University’s minimum international admission requirements.Note: International Independent Student status is not intended for foreigners applying from abroad because this status may not enable you to obtain the required Study Permit and CAQ to study in Canada. Refer to Immigration Regulations for more information.Find out more about criteria for admission and required supporting documents for Independent Status.This guide will lead you through the online application process.Please note:Visit our "apply now" page and follow the steps to arrive at the start of the application.Specify your level of study. Choose undergraduate independent student.Select the term you wish to apply to (Fall, Winter or Summer) and the year.Provide your name, date of birth, first language, email address and other details. Please ensure that all information is accurate and matches all your official supporting documents. If you had to modify the spelling of your name when you created your Netname account, please correct your name here.For the questions about languages, if you are bilingual or multilingual, please choose the options that seem most appropriate to you. Your answers will not affect your application for admission in any way.The email address you provide will be the one we use to communicate with you throughout the admissions process.You may specify a mailing address different from your home address.You can change your contact information at a later date through MyConcordia.ca. MyConcordia is the university’s main site for students to carry out key tasks related to their academic life, like checking course schedules and paying tuition. For future students, it’s also the place where you can check on the status of your application for admission. You’ll be able to log into MyConcordia once you’ve submitted your application.Please ensure that you have PDF copies of your documents ready to upload.You do not have to upload all the documents listed in the drop-down list, only the documents required to support your application.File types that can be uploaded include:File size can be no larger than 5 MB per document.You may also add documents after the application has been submitted through My Student Centre on MyConcordia.You’re almost finished!Release of Information: Privacy rules prevent us from talking to anyone but you about your application, unless you indicate that it’s okay for us to communicate with a specific person that you have authorized on your application. Once you are admitted, this person will no longer have access to your file.Application Fee: To finalize your application, you need to agree to our terms and conditions, and pay a non-refundable application fee ($15 CAD) by credit card or debit card. Please note: we accept the following credit cards: Visa, MasterCard, American Express, Discover, and the following debit cards: Scotiabank, Bank of Montreal, Royal Bank or TD Canada Trust.Once you click the “submit” button, you will receive a confirmation email with an attached PDF copy of your application. This email will include an eight-digit student ID number that you will use throughout your studies should you be accepted at Concordia.If you didn’t get the confirmation email (and you can’t find it in your junk mail folder either), call us at 514-848-2424, extension 2668 or email study@concordia.ca. We will send you your student ID number.If you have any technical difficulties with your online application please contact the Instructional & Information Technology Services (IITS) service desk.Application assessment periodWhen your application is complete and you’ve added all supporting documents to your file, we start to consider your application. Because the admissions process varies for each student, we cannot give specific dates for a decision. Read more about the application assessment period.If you apply for admission to a semester in the distant future (for example, to start a year from the time you apply), we will defer our decision until we receive the grades for any courses that you have not completed yet.You can keep tabs on your application status online. Log into MyConcordia.ca and go to My Student Centre.We communicate admission decisions with you by email or regular post – not over the phone. Please double check your email junk folder if you have not received any emails from Concordia.Academic advising for Independent Undergraduate StudentsNewly-admitted Independent students are strongly encouraged to contact the Faculty/School they are interested in joining and/or taking courses from in order to obtain advising prior to commencing their studies.The general University telephone number is 514-848-2424For general advising, you may wish to meet with an Admissions Information Officer in the Welcome Centre. To make an appointment please call Enrolment Services at 514-848-2424 ext. 2668.To contact our admissions staff about questions regarding your application, email us at study@concordia.ca.Independent students may register for a maximum of 9 credits per term (3 courses).They may only choose their courses after all undergraduate degree program students have had a chance to select their courses (generally one month before the beginning of each academic term).International Independent Students must refer to their Offer of Admission for more information about registering for courses.Courses with prerequisites: Independent students must prove to the University that they have completed all required prerequisite courses. In these cases, you must complete a "Prerequisite Waiver" form, and in some cases, you must visit the academic department offering the desired course directly to ask for a prerequisite waiver.If you are an Independent Student who subsequently wishes to enter a bachelor's or certificate program, go here to start your application. Double check that you have met all of the Admission Requirements by referring to the Recommended Courses section of this website, by double checking your Program of Interest’s Admission Requirements or by speaking to an Academic Advisor.In some cases, credits you earned as an Independent Student can be applied towards a degree or certificate program, if they are appropriate. The number of credits you receive will depend on the program and the Faculty. For instance, in the case of the Faculty of Arts and Science, an Independent Student may be granted a maximum of 30 credits towards their degree.Independent graduate students enrol in a particular graduate course, without enroling in the graduate program which offers the course. Normally, independent graduate students take no more than the equivalent of two graduate courses per term, and no more than the equivalent of four graduate courses from the courses of any graduate program up to 12 credits. Independent students are normally classified as graduate part-time students.Only those who meet the prerequisite requirements for admission to the graduate course in question will be considered as independent graduate students, and in every case permission of the Graduate Program Director and/or Faculty Student Affairs Office must be obtained. Meeting the minimum requirements of an individual course does not guarantee entry to that course, as preference will be given to regular students.Independent graduate students are subject to the fees and regulations applicable to such categories of students.Complete information on Independent Graduate Students can be found in the Graduate Admission section of the Graduate Calendar.To register as an independent graduate student, the applicant must complete the graduate “Authorization to Register as a Non-Degree Student” [PDF] form.Applicants must submit the completed form to the Graduate Program Assistant of the graduate program which is offering the course. They must also submit a copy of their most recent transcript (student copies are acceptable; normally, copies downloaded from the web are not).  View a list of Graduate Program Contacts.A list of courses offered by the graduate program is available in the Graduate Calendar. You can access a list, along with brief course descriptions by selecting the graduate program which offers the course. Applicants should know, or have an idea, of which course they want to take.Applicants must also provide proof of citizenship status and proof of legal name. While the Canadian passport can be used to prove citizenship status, an additional document must be provided for proof of legal name. View a list of documents which can be used as proof for both citizenship status and proof of legal name.As per the Ministry of Education, students who are not Québec residents are charged a higher tuition rate than Québec Residents. To avoid the higher rate, all Canadian Citizens (including First Nations) and Permanent Residents must submit the required documents by the deadline. Visit the Québec Residency website for deadlines and additional information.As per the Ministry of Education, all students are required to have a permanent code in order to study in Québec. Students who do not have a permanent code will be charged an additional fee for their courses. To avoid the additional charge, applicants must make the necessary arrangements to obtain a permanent code. Visit the Permanent Code page for more information.Upon receipt of all the required documents, the Graduate Program Director will evaluate the applicant’s academic credentials to determine if the applicant is qualified to take the graduate courses. In some departments, the applicant must also get permission from the professor teaching the course. If the applicant is recommended, the Graduate Program Assistant will forward the applicant’s file to the Faculty Student Affairs Office for final approval. Upon final approval, the Faculty will forward the file to the Office of the Registrar to create the Independent Graduate status for the applicant. Once the applicant has received Independent Graduate status, the Graduate Assistant can register the applicant in courses.As the entire procedure may take 2 or more weeks, applicants are advised to start procedures well ahead of the registration deadline. Applicants are reminded that independent graduate students register after students enroled in a degree and are not guaranteed a place in a course.For advice on Graduate Independent Studies please contact the Program Assistant of the graduate program which is offering the course. View a list of Graduate Program Contacts.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityIndependent studentsAcademic AdvisingFormsIndependent student overview
                
            
                
					
                    Admissions requirements
                
            
                
					
                    How to apply
                
            
                
					1
                    Start your application
                
            
                
					2
                    Level of study
                
            
                
					3
                    Term
                
            
                
					4
                    Biographical information
                
            
                
					5
                    Contact information
                
            
                
					6
                    Attach documents
                
            
                
					7
                    Finalize your application
                
            
                
					
                    After you've applied
                
            
                
					
                    Application assessment period
                
            
                
					
                    Check your application status
                
            
                
					
                    Letters of acceptance
                
            
                
					
                    Academic advising
                
            
                
					
                    Contact us
                
            
                
					
                    Course registration
                
            
                
					
                    Applying to an undergraduate program after Independent Status
                
            Authorization to Register as a Non-degree StudentCoursesProof of Citizenship and Proof of Legal NameProof of Québec ResidencyCode PermanentPermission to RegisterAdvising for Independent Graduate StudentsHelpful resourcesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Winter 2017Registration datesFind out more: