http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/admissions/undergraduate/apply/instructions.htmlThis guide will lead you through the online application process.Please note:Go through our future student portal, Connect2Concordia, to access a range of support before, during and after you apply.
 
 ORIf you're ready to apply immediately, visit this page.Specify your level of study. Choose undergraduate.We’d like to know a bit about your educational history. Choose one of the six categories that applies to you. If you are not currently enrolled in school, choose the option that best describes your most recent situation.You are:Select the term you wish to apply to (Fall or Winter) and the year.Provide your name, date of birth, first language, email address and other details. Please ensure that all information is accurate and matches all your official supporting documents. If you had to modify the spelling of your name when you created your Netname account, please correct your name here.To answer the questions about languages if you are bilingual or multilingual, please choose the options that seem most appropriate to you. Your answers will not affect your application for admission in any way.The email address you provide will be the one we use to communicate with you throughout the admissions process.You may specify a mailing address different from your home address.You can change your contact information at a later date through MyConcordia.ca.MyConcordia is the university’s main site for students to carry out key tasks related to their academic life, like checking course schedules and paying tuition. For future students, it’s also the place where you can check on the status of your application for admission. You’ll be able to log into MyConcordia once you’ve submitted your application.Select the academic program and the academic plan to which you’d like to apply. An Academic Program is the type of degree or certificate (Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Engineering, etc.) you plan to pursue. An Academic Plan is the specific subject you want to focus on (Major in Art History, Specialization in Biophysics, etc.)If you are not sure exactly which plan you would like to apply to, browse our A-Z program guide to consider all your options. Remember, if you leave your application open with no activity for more than 20 minutes, you will be automatically signed out to protect your privacy. Click the Save and Exit button if you need to leave your application.Click Search by subject. Choose a subject from the drop-down menu and then click search by subject again to display your options.You may indicate up to three academic program and academic plan choices on your application. We strongly recommend that you use all three choices. Your first choice should be your most preferred program and plan. If you are not admitted to your first choice, we automatically consider you for your next choice. Do not choose more than one plan in the same subject—if you apply to the Honours or Specialization plan and are not qualified, you will automatically be considered for the Major plan in the same subject.
“Add a second plan” allows you to add a minor or a second major (if you’re planning on doing a double major). Click Add a second plan and then click the magnifying glass to select the plan.You are not required to choose a second plan.  Some academic plans don’t permit you to take on a second academic plan, in which case you’ll see the note “no matching values are found.”If you are interested in applying to the Institute for Co-operative Education, check off the Co-op box when choosing your program.If you graduated from a high school outside of Quebec and plan to apply for Co-op, please contact the Institute directly as we normally only consider you for Co-op in your second year.Create a list of all the academic institutions you have attended, including high school, college, and/or university.Click Select School to begin. If you cannot find your school using the School Name Search, click Return and check “I could not find my specific school.”Please include the time period when you studied there (approximate dates are acceptable), and the degree or level that you have completed. Your acceptance, placement level or registration may be affected if you don’t disclose your entire secondary and post-secondary academic history.List your academic honours, distinctions and achievements, including International Baccalaureate or Advanced Placement courses.If you have any gaps in your educational history timeline, tell us about your activities and work history since you last attended school. You may also wish to attach your curriculum vitae/resumé later in the application.Indicate any courses that you have registered in for the current semester (meaning they won’t yet appear on your transcript).Please also indicate any courses you plan to complete before starting at Concordia, like summer courses.Please ensure that you have electronic copies of your documents ready to upload. You do not have to upload all the documents listed in the drop-down list, only the documents required to support your application.File types that can be uploaded include:File size can be no larger than 5 MB per document.You may also add documents after the application has been submitted through the My Student Centre on MyConcordia.To see what documents we require for your application, go to My Concordia.ca. Under My Student Centre, check the “To Do List" on the right hand side. Once you submit a required document, we will review your file again and remove that item from your “To Do List”. Please note that it may take up to 15 working days to update your file. You won’t be able to see the documents you’ve already uploaded – you will only be able to see the documents you still need to upload. Please do not upload a document more than once.You’re almost finished!Privacy rules prevent us from talking to anyone but you about your application, unless you authorize a specific person in this section. Once you are admitted, this person will no longer have access to your file.To finalize your application, you need to agree to our terms and conditions, and pay a non-refundable application fee ($100 CAD) by credit card or debit card. Please note: we accept the following credit cards: Visa, MasterCard, American Express, Discover, and the following debit cards: Scotiabank, Bank of Montreal, Royal Bank or TD Canada Trust.If you do not have access to a valid credit card, you may request a PDF of the application form by emailing us at study@concordia.ca. Please note that a PDF application takes longer to process.Once you click the “submit” button, you will receive a confirmation email with an attached PDF copy of your application. This email will include an eight-digit student ID number that you will use throughout your studies should you be accepted at Concordia.If you didn’t get the confirmation email (and you can’t find it in your junk mail folder either), call us at 514-848-2424, extension 2668 or email study@concordia.ca. We will send you your student ID number.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityUndergraduate application instructionsUndergraduate admissions
            
                Undergraduate admissions
            1. Start your application2. Level of study3. Applicant category4. Term5. Biographical information6. Contact information7. Academic programs and academic plans8. Academic history9. Distinctions, honours and additional information10. Courses11. Attach documents12. Finalize your applicationIf you have technical difficulties with your online application:Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424First choiceUsing your three choicesAdding a second planCo-operative Education (optional)Documents and “To Do List”Release of InformationApplication Fee