http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/students/international/health-insurance/insurance-for-dependents.htmlHealth insurance coverage is also highly recommended for spouses and children who are accompanying an international student to Canada. Couple or family coverage is available with the Blue Cross Health Insurance Plan for Concordia International Students, but must be purchased WITHIN 31 DAYS of the arrival of the spouse and/or children to Canada. However, there is no obligation for your dependents to be covered by this Plan. For information on other insurers who provide Visitor's Insurance on an individual basis, please see a list of websites below. You can compare their plans and choose the one that best fits your current situation. Keep in mind that not all plans are comparable and it is the responsibility of the student to check on the plan details.Please note that international students MUST be covered by the Blue Cross Health Insurance Plan for Concordia International Students even if their dependents are covered by another insurance provider. Students who select the Blue Cross Health Insurance Plan for Concordia International Students for their spouse and/or children will be required to provide their names and dates of birth to the ISO as well the date of their arrival to Canada so that an insurance card can be issued for them. Also, a couple or family coverage will be charged to the student’s account. You have 31 days, from the day your dependent becomes eligible for coverage, to apply for couple/family coverage under the Health Insurance Plan for Concordia University International Students, without proof of good health. After this 31 days period, your dependent will have to supply proof of good health and be approved by Blue Cross before they could be covered. For more information on how to add your dependants, please visit the ISO.For any pregnancy-related issues which involve your Blue Cross Health Insurance Plan, Please read some FAQs, below or visit the ISO.Children born in Canada whose parents are not Canadian citizens or Permanent Residents are considered Canadian citizens from the time their birth is registered with the proper authorities. These children, however, do not qualify under the Quebec Health Insurance coverage (Quebec Medicare) and will still need to have private insurance coverage.  It is highly recommended that you add your newly born child to your Blue Cross Health Insurance Plan for International Students within 31 days of birth. Your contract will cover your pregnancy related medical expenses covered under Quebec medicare health insurance plan as well as the delivery of a baby, i.e. room and board in a hospital for up to two (2) days of confinement for a natural birth (a longer period may apply if there are complications). The average stay for Quebec residents covered by the government plan is between one and two days, unless there are any unforeseen complications. However, a pregnancy commencing prior to the date of coverage will be reimbursed only if you were previously covered for a similar benefit in Canada for a period of at least 12 consecutive months immediately prior to the present coverage (for more information concerning pre-existing conditions, see p.6 of your Blue Cross Health Insurance Booklet). If your wife is covered under another Health Insurance Plan or you are planning to do so, you should verify, before the pregnancy starts, what the plan limitations are regarding pregnancy. Also, remember that you have 31 days from the day your dependent becomes eligible for coverage to apply for family under the Health Insurance Plan for Concordia University Students. After that 31 day period, you have to supply proof of health.Please note that some plans completely exclude expenses related to pregnancy; others will only cover the expenses if the pregnancy started after the beginning of coverage. There can also be limitations relating to the coverage of infants. For example, some plans will cover infants as of the 15th or the 30th day after birth. For a list of websites of some insurance companies that provide Visitor’s Insurance see the list above.The plan administrator, the Vigilis Group, will be happy to answer all your questions. They can be reached by the phone numbers and email seen below.450 682-7772 | 1 888 682-5218
Website: vigilis.ca
Email Address: info@vigilis.ca(514) 848-2424, ext. 3515Fax: 514-848-3599iso@concordia.ca 
Contact our staffJoin us on FacebookSir George Williams Campus
H-653 (see map)
1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W.Office hours
Monday to Friday, 9 a.m. - 5 p.m.                          Wednesdays, 11:45 a.m. - 5 p.m.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityInsurance for DependentsStudent hub
            
                Student hubI became pregnant (or plan to become pregnant) and I am covered under the single coverage of the Health Insurance Plan for Concordia University International Students. Will my pregnancy related medical expenses be covered?
                
            
                
					
                    What if my wife is not presently covered under the Concordia International Student Health Insurance Plan?
                
            
                
					
                    I would like to have more information on my options. Who can I call?
                
            International Students OfficeHow to add your dependants (spouse and/or children) to your Blue Cross Health Insurance PlanInformation on pregnancyContact usLocation & hoursServices and resourcesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424For more information, please contact the Vigilis Group at the numbers listed below: