http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/intermedia-mfa.htmlThe MFA in Studio Arts is a professional terminal degree. The MFA Program appeals to practicing artists who wish to refine personal content and forms through critical inquiry. Alumni are recognized as multidisciplinary artist-researchers working at the vanguard of their respective practices.The three-year, full-time Intermedia (Video, Performance and Electronic Arts) concentration is grounded both historically and intellectually in interdisciplinary art practices, primarily video, performance and electronic arts. MFA students in this concentration integrate theory and practices from the humanities, sciences and creative arts to produce work based on social, political, ecological, gender-based and other issues. Students are inspired by the plurality of subject matter and methodologies to think critically while conducting research that enables them to locate their own artistic expression within the larger context of contemporary culture.Theory and studio seminars provide an important forum for students to discuss and investigate issues and concerns. Review committees composed of faculty, studio arts graduates and invited artist-critics provide a focused response to studio work and prepare students for their concluding exhibition and defense.Concordia’s Faculty of Fine Arts has a longstanding international reputation for excellence. Its vibrant creative and intellectual culture fosters cutting-edge practice, research and scholarship.During the first two years of the MFA program, students combine seminar courses with independent, supervised studio practice. Seminars focus on thematic and special topics, such as narrative, cultural aesthetics and performance.Theoretical concepts are introduced to provide a philosophical context to the historical, social and cultural ramifications of open media and video practices. Students integrate this knowledge as they explore the intersections of interdisciplinary work and pursue their artistic development. Studio practice emphasizes technical investigation and experimentation.The MFA program offers alternative learning approaches to standard studio classes and academic offerings to exceptional students. Opportunities include:Students have access to state-of-the-art  facilities equipped with:Faculty members and graduate students have pioneered new processes, creative communities and diverse prototypes. Innovation and interdisciplinarity in artistic practice and presentation lie at the heart of teaching and research programs. Like other Fine Arts departments, Studio Arts offers a rigorous, stimulating and supportive learning environment.Studio arts programs emphasize experimentation, collaboration and diversity. They value critical inquiry and the investigation of social, cultural and intellectual issues. Students interact regularly with faculty in their area of concentration and also with faculty in other fine arts disciplines whose expertise and research interests may be of particular benefit to them.The department has two research chairs:The Faculty’s art, design and performance laboratories are modern, well-equipped facilities run by experienced technical staff. Depending on their research, graduate students may be able to take advantage of the facilities offered at the Faculty’s four research centres.The MFA program has two sites within the VA Building for the exhibition and dissemination of graduate work. On the main floor, the MFA Gallery hosts thesis and other exhibitions presented by the students of the program in all media. The downstairs gallery allows for experimentation and making public research or works in progress. In addition, the Faculty of Fine Arts Gallery (FOFA Gallery) in the EV Building  and the Leonard and Bina Ellen Art Gallery in the Library Building regularly exhibit the work of MFA students.MFA graduates work as professional artists and have the necessary skills and experience to fulfill multiple roles within contemporary art practice and scholarship: teachers at the post-secondary level, curators and researchers.Concordia is located in the heart of Montreal and MFA students benefit from easy access to museums, galleries and the city’s vibrant artistic community.Admission Requirements. A Bachelor of Fine Arts or a Bachelor of Arts with a Fine Arts or Fine Arts and Art History major, or an approved equivalent, from a recognized institution and with at least a B average in the major area is required. Applicants to the Film Production concentration are expected to have a Bachelor of Fine Arts or Bachelor of Arts degree in cinema or an approved equivalent with at least a B average in the major area. In all cases the students’ undergraduate experience and proficiency must be relevant to the area in which they plan to specialize at the graduate level.Note: Students with a BFA from Concordia University must wait two (2) years before being considered for admission into the MFA program.Application RequirementsPriority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Consult the graduate calendar for a complete list of current courses.A limited number of Teaching Assistantships are automatically assigned to registered students in the 1st and 2nd year of study.A limited number of undergraduate courses are taught by graduate students in their third year of study. These positions are awarded on a competitive basis.Employment opportunities also exist as Research Assistants in the Faculty’s research centres.Email: MFA.StudioArts@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 4607Location: 
 1395 René Lévesque Blvd. W.,  VA 250-6
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 2M5Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityStudio Arts, Intermedia (Video, Performance and Electronic Arts) (MFA)Why do your Master's at Concordia?
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Fibres and Material Practices, Print Media, Photography, Sculpture, Painting/Drawing, Intermedia (Video, Performance and Electronic Arts)
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Sample classes
                
            
                
					
                    Assistantships & internships
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a master's in Studio Arts, Intermedia (Video, Performance and Electronic Arts)Program DetailsRelated ProgramsMaster of Fine Arts (MFA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424