http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/academics/international-exchange.htmlAn exciting feature of any university education is the contact students make with individuals from around the world. However, nothing compares to actually discovering the world for yourself!This program allows Arts & Science students to study abroad for a semester or two at one of Concordia's partner universities. These universities have exchange agreements with Concordia, which allows students to study abroad while continuing to pay Concordia tuition. Arts & Science students interested in studying at an institution that does not have an exchange agreement with Concordia may still be granted permission to do so. In this situation, students would be required to pay tuition directly to their host university. In order to be considered for this option, students must submit a Student Request Form to Student Academic Services. This program allows students from one of Concordia's partner universities to study in the Faculty of Arts & Science. These universities have exchange agreements with Concordia, which allows students to study at Concordia while continuing to pay their normal tuition.International students who would like to take courses in the Faculty of Arts & Science may be admitted as a Visiting International Fee-Paying student (VIFP). As a VIFP, you are responsible for paying Concordia tuition fees.In order for the Faculty to evaluate your request to study within the Faculty, we require the following documentation:If you have any questions pertaining to this process, please contact:Ms. Shoshana Kalfon
Academic Counsellor
Faculty of Arts & Science
Concordia University
Tel: (514) 848-2424 ext. 4016
Fax: (514) 848-3092
E-mail: shoshana.kalfon@concordia.caTransfer students are accepted to the university based on their previous academic history. Students transferring from accredited institutions will receive transfer credits, when possible, that will count toward the degree. Specific course transfer may be possible if they are required for the program of study. Transfer credit determination, however, is only evaluated after an admission application has been submitted to the university. Specification of transfer credits may require a department assessment after an offer of admission has been given.Residency requirement rules require that a minimum of 45 credits, these normally being the last 45 credits, and at least 50% of your program be completed at Concordia University. The four year (120 credits) Early Childhood and Elementary Education (ECEE) and the Teaching English as a Second Language (TESL) program require that a student completes at least 60 credits at Concordia University.For more information, please visit the Office of the Registrar.For faculty-specific information regarding exchanges, visiting & transfer status:
 
Shoshana Kalfon, Academic Counsellor
(514) 848-2424, ext. 4016
shoshana.kalfon@concordia.caFor general information regarding exchanges:Visit Concordia International.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityVisiting & exchangeFaculty of Arts and Science
            
                Faculty of Arts and Science
            Related LinksSteps to follow to become a VIFP in the Faculty of Arts & Science:Options for Concordia students:Options for students from abroad:Contact usConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Concordia Student Exchange Program (CSEP)
Visiting fee-paying optionStudy exchanges 
Visiting international fee-paying student
Transfer students