http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/undergraduate/kenneth-woods-portfolio/program-overview/investment-seminars.htmlSince the program’s inception, a large number of investment professionals have given special seminars to KWPMP students. We extend our sincere thanks to those who have taken the time to share their knowledge and insights on the investment world with us. Some of our most recent seminars include:


Seeking Alpha in Pension Fund Management
Simon Guyard, Christophe Truong, Air Canada Pension Investments

Lessons Learned the Hard Way
Stephen Hui, Pembroke Management Ltd.

Private Equity Workshop
Antoine Casimir JR.,  NOVACAP

U.S. Small-Cap Equity Management
Mathieu Sirois, Van Berkom and Associates

Fixed Income: Current Strategies and Portfolio Risk Management
Mr. Harold Scheer, Baker Gilmore & Associates Inc.

Burgundy's Value Investing Philosophy and Investment Process
Robert Sankey, Burgundy Asset Management Ltd.

The GEEP - Global Environmental Efficiency Portfolio
John Huber, Wall Street Associates

Growth Investing and Emerging Markets
Nelson Cheung, Formula Growth

The Canadian Financial Services Universe Today
Andrey I. Omelchak, Montrusco Bolton Investments Inc.

Buying Good Companies at the Right Time
Clifton Isings, CN Investment Division

The Difference between Economics and Macrothematic Investing with Applications to 2010
David Abramson, Bank Credit Analyst Research Group

Approaches to Portfolio Construction: The View of Top Guns at La Caisse de Depot
Jean Frédéric Bérard, Terry Dimock, Jean-Francois Jolicoeur, Stephen Kibsey Patrice Langois, Louis Philippe Thibodeau, Caisse de Dépôt et Placement du Quebec

From Asset Mix to Execution: The Workings of A Sophisticated Pension Plan
Kevin Duggan, Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan Board

Hedge Fund Basics and the Current Chessboard Of Financial Market Participants
James R. Book, Normandy Hill Capital, LP

Investing in Canadian Equities
Daniel Dupont, Hugo Lavallee, Fidelity Investments Canada

Investment Manager Research
Julie Elliott, Mercer Consulting

Portfolio Construction: How To Beat Your Benchmark
Jeffrey M. Kobernick, UBS Private Wealth Management

Risk and Portfolio Management 
Frédéric Blondeau and Simon Guyard, Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec

Security Selection and Portfolio Construction:a Fireside Chat
Justin Nightingale, Natcan Investment Management

The Investment Case for Banks... a Study of Comerica
Susan Da Sie, Standard Life Investments

The Secret of Life…Weak Competition
John Ewing, Burgundy Asset Management Ltd.

Valuation Framework for Growth Stocks
Jeffrey S.D. Tory, Pembroke Management Ltd.

Value Investing
Jean-Philippe Bouchard, Giverny Capital Inc.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityKWPMP investment seminarsJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424