http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2016/02/09/la-vitrine-montreal-events-february-march-2016.htmlCash & Carry Auction | VA-102 (1395 René-Lévesque Blvd.) | February 11 at 7 p.m. (view the pieces starting at 10 a.m.)Bring some cash and walk out with all the art you can carry. Never been to an auction? No problem! This event is open to everyone.Twenty students from Concordia’s “PHOT 499 - Special Topics in Photography” class are giving the community a sneak peek of their upcoming April show by auctioning off prints.Peruse the offerings from 10 a.m. until 7 p.m., then get your paddles out because the live bidding begins at 7 p.m.All collected funds will go directly to cover the cost of the upcoming exhibition. Get more information on the event on Facebook and at Concordia.ca. Concordia Art Consignment Shop — Winter Vernissage! | Hall Building Mezzanine | February 11, from 5 to 7 p.m.How cool is it to decorate your digs with artwork from an up-and-coming Concordian? Well, here’s another chance to find a few gems, oh-so-conveniently timed on the same evening as Cash & Carry.The Art Consignment Shop (ACS) is reopening for the winter semester. To celebrate, they’re hosting a vernissage to introduce a whole shop full of new student work.Find more information about the ACS and their winter vernissage.Le grand rendez-vous des rythmes du monde | Espace culturel Georges-Émile-Lapalme, Place des Arts | February 11 and 12 from 4 to 6 p.m.From South American beats to beautiful gospel, Vision diversité has you covered for the 10th year in a row.Each day, three artists bring you their unique flavours of music and take you on a journey back to their roots. Become a citizen of the world in just two short days!Get more information on the event and check out the line-up for both days!Montréal joue | February 20 to March 6Montreal global status as a video gaming hub and a festival mecca is undisputed. Here's one reason why...From retro to indie games, these 200-plus free activities will feed your curiosity and elevate your creativity at Montréal joue.You'll meet gamers, creators, business owners — basically, anyone who’s anyone in the Montreal gaming scene. So, put down that controller and go meet the makers!Get more information on the event or "like" the Montréal joue Facebook page. Watch this space for further details on Concordia's "hands-on" participation in the festival.Performance of Hamlet | Monument-National | February 23 to 26 at 8 p.m. and February 27 at 3 p.m.Better than Coles Notes, shorter than the movie.Roll back in time and show up at the Monument-National where the École nationale de théâtre will whisk you away to Denmark to join the despair-filled world of Prince Hamlet and his uncle Claudius.In the words of Hamlet, “to thine own self be true” and get yourself to the Monument!Find more information.Nuit blanche | All around Montreal | February 27 from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m.It’s a night full of shenanigans and fun!From underground art exhibitions to music shows and outdoor games, the 13th edition of Nuit blanche has more than 200 free activities for you to enjoy.The Grande bibliothèque is opening its doors and turning off the lights. Ever wanted to visit a dark library? Now you can!Get more information on the library event and the full schedule of events! Here’s a suggested itinerary and tips on how to get the most out of Nuit blanche. PLUS: Watch this space for further details on Concordia's participation. Stay up to date with what’s going on in Montreal by subscribing to La Vitrine’s newsletter. 
        GAMERella asks women to ‘Boss Up’
    
        Indie gamers: Critical Hit 2015 wants you to try this on for size
    
        A new student-powered video game about sexual consent
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityThe top 5 things to do in Montreal: February 11 to March 3News
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topics1. DON’T MISS: SOLD! TO THE HIGHEST BIDDERALSO, DON'T MISS: MORE AWESOME CONCORDIA ART
 2. RHYTHMS OF THE WORLD
 3. PLAY THE GAME4. TO BE, OR NOT TO BE: THAT IS THE QUESTION
 5. ALL NUIT LONGFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424