http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/cissc/lectures-conferences.htmlThe Centre sponsors innovative interdisciplinary scholarship across the Humanities and Fine Arts through regular public events and happenings, including conferences, symposia, exhibitions and a Speaker Series that brings internationally recognized scholars to Concordia to give talks and lead workshops.Please contact us to subscribe to the CISSC Mailing List. Louis Patrick Leroux, Martin French, Alisan Funk and Patrice Aubertin will feed and guide the discussion and exchanges involving teachers and students from National Circus School, members of the Working Group on Circus Research, as well as members of the Concordia University CISSC Risk Research Working Group. This joint meeting will bring research cultures and practices, academic, pedagogical and experiential perspectives together.What types of risk are identified in contemporary circus and how is management of those risks taught? What research trends and methodologies are investigating the intersection of risk and creativity? What is some of the current research telling us?  Articles will be circulated for discussion.  Presentations will be brief and will allow for discussion.  Need a ride from SGW?  Please email martin.french@concordia.ca by 9am on 16 Nov. 2016.Download event poster
Everyday interweavings of different temporalities and spatialities challenge our modes of recollection, representation, and complicate practice. This has implications for our understanding of bodies, causality, agency and power, and engagements with the wider environment. This discussion will explore the continuities and disruptions in the sense of social totality as a global condition of contemporary urban life. It seeks the sites and moments where aesthetic experience and ethical situations collide with with political and moral institutions and norms as a way of linking the ethical with the political.Dr. Shields will also give a graduate seminar on "Virtuality and the Urban" on Monday, October 31 at 10 a.m. in EV 11.655.

Rob Shields is the Henry Marshall Tory Chair, Professor in Sociology and in Art and Design at the University of Alberta and Director of the City-Regions Studies Centre. Rob Shields is an award-winning author and co-editor of numerous books including: Spatial Questions, The Virtual, Lifestyle Shopping, Cultures of Internet, Lefebvre Love and Struggle, & Places on the Margin. Dr. Shields was past Director of the Institute of Interdisciplinary Studies at Carleton University, Ottawa. A Commonwealth Scholar at University of Sussex, he founded Space and Culture, an international peer-refereed journal, and Curb Canadian planning magazine. He was 2014 City of Vienna Visiting Professor in Architecture and Planning at TUWien and is currently completing research on nanotechnology as a space of concern.ADMISSON IS FREE.  ALL ARE WELCOME.Download poster of the event 
LECTURE
2 to 4 p.m. on Wednesday, November 2, 2016
H-763 (Henry F. Hall Building)In this Public Lecture, Joseph Naytowhow will present an overview of Cree ways of seeing/ knowing (nehiyo itâpisinowin). These ways challenge the conventional organization of knowledge by discipline in the university curriculum and also the distinction between theory and practice. While rooted in tradition, Cree ways of knowing are not stuck in the past but rather open up vital new avenues for “remembering forward.” The Naytowhow lecture will be of particular interest to those concerned with making indigenous knowledge an integral part of the university curriculum and exploring the far borderlands of interdisciplinarity and intercultural relations.SEMINAR
10 a.m. on Thursday, November 3, 2016
 EV 11.705 (Milieux Resource Centre)Joseph Naytowhow will also lead a seminar on “Indigenous Art as Performance,” which draws on his vast experience as a performer, including his recent role as Coyote (mîscakanis) in the stage adaptation of Maria Campbell’s “Little Badger and the Fire Spirit” at Sum Theatre, Saskatoon.Biography
Joseph Naytowhow is a gifted Plains/Woodland Cree (nehiyaw) singer/ songwriter, storyteller, and voice, stage and film actor. He comes from the Sturgeon Lake First Nation Band in Saskatchewan. As a child, Joseph was influenced by his grandfather’s traditional and ceremonial chants as well as the sounds of the fiddle and guitar. Today he is renowned for his unique style of Cree/English storytelling, combined with original contemporary music and traditional First Nations drum and rattle songs. Joseph is the recipient of many awards. He also holds a Bachelor of Education degree from the University of Saskatchewan.This event is co-sponsored by the Centre for Sensory Studies, the RPLC Transformations in Indigenous Communities team, and the University Research Chair in Computational Media and the Indigenous Future Imaginary.Download poster of the event
Thursday, October 27, 2016 5:30 to 8:30 p.m.
Henry Hall Building, H-1271Event posterA workshop on vacancy and putting temporary use strategies to work in Montreal
 Led by Jonathan Lapalme and Mallory Wilson
Entremise | Futurists in Residence, Institute for Urban FuturesOctober 13, 2016
 4:30 - 6:30 pm
 Temps libre Mile End
 5605 avenue de Gaspé, Suite 106
© Concordia UniversityAbout the Centre
Working Groups
Events, lectures and conferences
PhD in Humanities
NewsConcordia UniversityEvents, lectures & conferencesFaculty of Arts and Science
            
                Faculty of Arts and Science
            Working Group EventsPast EventsUpcoming EventsCULTURAL TOPOLOGIES OF EXPERIENCECREE WAYS OF KNOWING (NEHIYO ITÂPISINOWIN): Indigenizing University EducationCritical Food Studies: An IntroductionEngaging the Senses: The 48th Annual Conference of the International Visual Literacy Association (IVLA)For all upcoming Working Group activities and events go directly to their individual pages for more information.  Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424If you would like to propose an event, please see CISSC Calls.
Rob Shields, University of Alberta
Tuesday, November 1, 2016   6 to 8 p.m.
Henry F. Hall Building, H-763JOSEPH NAYTOWHOWfeaturing the Montreal launch of: CONVERSATIONS IN FOOD STUDIESInstitute for Urban Futures presents
 Montréal: Temporary City // Ville temporaire5-8 October 2016
7th Floor Hall Building, Sir George Williams Campus, and other venues
For program information please see: ivla.org/conference2016The Movement to End HIV Criminalization
Thursday, September 15, 2016 (2:45-5:30) H-535