http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2013/01/22/living-well-aging-well.htmlFrom eating right to keeping active in old age, staying in good health throughout life is a prime concern for Canadians from coast to coast to coast. It’s also a focus for many researchers at Concordia University, for popular public figures and for well-known writers at the Globe and Mail.   For the past three years, the university and the newspaper have worked closely to promote how academic research can have a positive effect on lives far beyond the classroom. We’re coming together now to expand that thinking into a national conversation series on living well and aging well.   Open to the public and featured online, these conversations pair renowned Concordia researchers with popular figures, ranging from beloved writers to savvy business people to impressive athletes.Over the next few months, Concordia and the Globe and Mail will bring you an exciting series of public conversations, all on the topic of living well and staying healthy:  •    On February 7, internationally renowned author Naomi Wolf will be joined by Psychology Professor Jim Pfaus for what’s sure to be a rousing lecture on the topic of female sexuality. (This event has already reached capacity attendance!) •    On March 19, New York Times food critic Mark Bittman takes the stage alongside Pediatric Public Health Psychology Lab director Jennifer McGrath to talk about the obesity crisis that is sweeping North America.  •    Working through the blues. Come to Concordia on April 18, when John Molson School of Business Dean Steve Harvey tackles the subject of mental health and the workplace with Mary Deacon, Chair of the Bell Mental Health Initiative at Bell Canada.   •    The lecture series wraps up on May 1, when 82-year-old master marathoner Ed Whitlock chats with PERFORM Centre Scientific Director Louis Bherer about what has kept him on the run for so long and how embracing a healthy lifestyle through your later years can help you stay sharp, both physically and mentally.  Guiding the conversation will be our moderators, Globe and Mail writers André Picard and Sophie Cousineau, two sharp minds who have been keeping readers well informed for years.   For more details on the conversation series, be sure to stay tuned to the NOW news at concordia.ca/now. To reserve your seat for the upcoming events, keep an eye on the Alumni and Advancement calendar at concordia.ca/alumni-giving/alumni/connect-learn/calendar, where registration will open soon!   UPDATE Listen to the podcast: Watch the video: Related links:•    Department of Psychology •    Concordia Pediatric Public Health Psychology Lab •    John Molson School of Business •    PERFORM CentreSearch for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityUncovering the secrets to aging wellConcordia Center for Composites (CONCOM)
            
                Concordia Center for Composites (CONCOM)
            Related TopicsFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424