http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/marketing.htmlMarketing is the art of persuasion: how to convey ideas, manage buzz and create desire. You persuade people to do things like: buy a car or vote for a politician. And it doesn’t matter if you sell smart phones or sustainable living, you’ll learn the strategies, tactics and measurements behind influencing consumer choices.During your degree, you develop decision-making skills, exercise your creative mind and study consumer behaviour. You’ll also:JMSB’s applied approach gives you the tools to succeed in the marketplace after graduation. You will leave with the knowledge, skill and attitude to be an advertising account manager, market researcher or social media specialist, or to take on any number of marketing careers this versatile degree offers you.BComm in MarketingA Bachelor of Commerce degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background. All JMSB students follow a core business curriculum coupled with a JMSB major, which may be combined with a minor in another discipline or any combination of elective courses that interest them.JMSB Minor in MarketingA Minor in Marketing (12 credits) is available only to JMSB undergraduate students. This minor fulfills half of the 24 elective credits in your BComm and complements your major field of study.See the common admission requirements for all BComm, BAdmin and Certificate programs. The Co-op program gives you the chance to complete paid work terms that last 12 to 16 weeks. Work terms make it possible for you to:Learn more about our Co-op programs.
Societies and competitionsAs a Marketing student, you lead an active social life, connecting with students, and competing at regional, national or international level events.Our degree is versatile, opening up many career paths, including:A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityMarketing (BComm)Related programsKey resourcesJoin the ConversationDegree options
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Co-op program
                
            
                
					
                    Get involved
                
            
                
					
                    After your degreeWhy study Marketing?Program detailsUnited States  studentsBachelor of Commerce (BComm)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/msc/program-details/marketing.htmlThe Master of Science (MSc) in Marketing is designed for those who wish to enhance their expertise in the most up-to-date marketing theories and in the tools and methods used to conduct advanced marketing research. The program provides graduate with the skills and expertise to manage large research projects and prepares them to pursue successful careers as marketing specializes in fields such as brand management, new product development, communications and marketing research. Those who wish to pursue their studies at the doctoral level will find that the program provides a solid theoretical base for advanced research and consulting work.
We welcome applications from business majors, as well as from those who have majored in psychology, sociology, economics, or other non-business disciplines.Learn more about admissionsThe MSc program is a 45-credit program offered on a full-time or part-time basis.4 specialized seminars (electives)Thesis defenceThe principal objective of the seminar will be to evaluate current empirical and theoretical issues in consumer research, with special emphasis on journal articles with interdisciplinary content. Methodological and review articles will also be discussed. The focus on the seminar is the subset of human behaviour related to the consumption and/or use of goods and services, as well as the processes that lead up to them. Major emphasis will be placed on marketing communication, attitude development and attitude change, information processing, decision-making processes and strategies, as well as the post-purchase process including new findings in the areas of consumer satisfaction and cognitive dissonance.This seminar will focus on the communication process between a company and its markets and other publics. Theories, findings, hypotheses and techniques from several disciplines, such as social psychology, sociology, political science and marketing, will be studied and evaluated in the context of the design, planning and control of marketing communications programs. More emphasis will be given to advertising decisions than to personal communications decisions.This seminar acquaints students with well-known approaches to managerial decision-making and research in the area of Product Innovation and New Product Marketing. Analytical approaches presented in recent publications, combined with some important "classics", will be stressed. The course focuses primarily on new product development/marketing and covers a variety of topics, strategies, phases and analytical approaches relevant to this subject area. Specific topic areas include: innovation and new product development (NPD) strategies, the stages of the NPD process, new service development, and organization for NPD.One of the most pervasive actions that humans engage in is making decisions. Individuals choose which products to purchase, universities to attend, careers to pursue, mates to marry, among countless other decisions that they will make in their lifetimes. How does a consumer decide which product to purchase? How much information will an executive use prior to deciding whether to launch or abort a new product? What are the attributes that men and women look for in their ideal mates? How do individuals allocate their gift giving expenditures to the various recipients? The purpose of this course will be to introduce the student to two areas of inquiry that can help us understanding how individuals make decisions. The first part of the course will focus on the vast behavioral literature in judgment and decision making in an attempt to better understand how individuals arrive at a final judgment and/or choice. The second part of the course will shift focus to a recently developed Darwinian framework namely evolutionary psychology, to show that many behaviors, cognitions, emotions, preferences, and choices that we make are steeped in our Darwinian heritage.Segmentation and positioning are two of the most critical strategic choices in marketing. This course focuses on some statistical models that are used often by researchers in segmentation and positioning. Collectively, these tools aim to (1) understand the nature of consumer perceptions and preferences and (2) examine if they are homogeneous across groups of buyers. The models to be covered include factor analysis, deterministic and probabilistic multidimensional scaling, correspondence analysis, internal and external analysis of preferences, conjoint analysis and various types of cluster analysis. In addition to providing an understanding of the statistical foundations of these popular models in marketing research, the course will expose the students to "hands-on" data analysis through assignments that require the use of statistical software such as BMDP, SPSS, SAS, and other software shared by researchers and academicians.This specialized MSc seminar in marketing emphasizes theoretical and methodological knowledge necessary to conduct marketing research in a retailing context and is targeted toward MSc students who consider working (1) in retail management, (2) in marketing research, or (3) as consultants in the retail sector. The first half of the seminar emphasizes research on retail consumers and their responses to retail environments and retail offerings. The second half of the seminar focuses on strategic issues in retailing, such as pricing, sales promotions, and loyalty programs.This specialized MSc course in marketing aims at providing graduate students in marketing with an in-depth knowledge of consumer, organizational, and societal perspectives on brand management. The first half of the course emphasizes the cultural, personal, and interpersonal meaning of brands, and includes a discussion of the meaning of possessions, sacred and ritual brand experiences, and the role of nostalgia in shaping the meaning of brands. The second half of the course focuses on managerial aspects of branding, such as brand equity, brand extensions, and the elements of the brand mix.This seminar is designed to introduce students to several multivariate analysis techniques with emphasis on the practical use of these tools in business research. Techniques that will be covered in this course include MANOVA, discriminant analysis, principal components and factor analysis, canonical correlation analysis and multidimensional scaling. The objective of the seminar is to provide a fundamental understanding of the nature, power, and the limitations of multivariate statistical techniques.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityMarketingJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessAdmissions
                
            
                
					
                    Program structure & recommended MSc program plan
                
            
                    MSCA 662   Consumer Research   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MSCA 665   Marketing Communications   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MSCA 668   New Product Innovation   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MSCA 672E   Psychology of Decision Making   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MSCA 672G   Segmentation and Positioning in Marketing   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MSCA 672U   Research in Retailing: Theories, Methods and Applications   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MSCA 674   Brand Management   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MSCA 683   Multivariate Data Analysis   (3.0 credits)Marketing seminarsPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notes
Other seminarsPrerequisites & notesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Program structure: Year 1Program structure: Year 2http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/about/departments/marketing.htmlThe JMSB Department of Marketing advances knowledge through teaching, research and service. We offer our undergraduate and graduate students a superior education that is both timely and relevant. We conduct highly respected research which is published in the leading academic journals. We also serve the academic, business and not-for-profit communities with our teaching and research activities.BComm Marketing MajorCo-op Marketing ProgramMBA ProgramMSc in MarketingPhD Program Marketing SpecializationLynn Northrup, MB 13.219
Tel: 514-848-2424, ext. 2950
lynn.northrup@concordia.caBeverley Benderoff, MB 13.207
Tel: 514-848-2424, ext. 2952
beverley.benderoff@concordia.caMB 14.268 / MB 14.278
Tel: 514-848-2424, ext. 5424 © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityMarketingJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            NewsContact usConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Department CoordinatorDepartment AssistantPart-time Faculty Officehttp://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/conted/programs-courses/business-administration/diplomas/marketing.htmlThe intensive 3-month Diploma in Marketing provides both aspiring and current marketing professionals and entrepreneurs an opportunity to:  This intensive program includes an average of 24 hours of classroom time per week, scheduled Monday through Friday, between 9:00 and 18:00 each day. Students should be prepared to invest a minimum of 40 hours per week for class time, study and assignments. A schedule will be provided upon registration. Students can expect to spend approximately $300-$600 on textbooks and supplies.

Important
 All course exemptions must be requested in writing at the time of Admission in order to receive a tuition adjustment. To request a course exemption, students must complete a Course Exemption Form and submit it to the Centre for Continuing Education. Any exemptions granted after the admission period will not result in a tuition reduction.To qualify for this diploma students must successfully complete the following Compulsory courses:Students must complete the 6 course(s) listed below:Start date: April 03, 2017
Status: OPEN for enrolment. Enrol now. 
Weeks: 03-Apr-2017 to 16-Jun-2017
Schedule: Class hours scheduled Mon to Fri between 9:00-18:00
Time commitment: Min. 40 hours per week for class time, study & course work
Tuition: $4,980© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityDiploma in MarketingContinuing Education
            
                Continuing Education
            Intensive program detailsCoursesAt a glanceEnrich your marketing skillsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424