http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/students/exams/accommodations/med-note.htmlIf you missed a final examination due to a long-term illness, you may apply to replace you grade with a MED notation. This page explains when you may apply for a MED notation, how to do it, and when you will write your replacement final exam.Be sure to review all the university regulations concerning “MED” notations in section 16.3.8 in the undergraduate calendar.A MED notation on your transcript indicates that you unable to write a final examination and/or complete other assignments due to a long-term medical situation. After you write the final exam your final grade in the course will replace the MED notation on your transcript.A long-term medical situation is an illness or condition that has been ongoing throughout the term and has severely interfered with your ability to complete course assignments or write the final exam.You cannot apply for a MED notation if you experience a short-term illness just before the start of exams or the exam period, but you may apply for to defer your exam. Learn more about DEF notations.You may apply for a MED notation if you missed a final exam due to long-term illness.  Check your transcript when you apply for a MED notation. Your transcript must show:We cannot process your application if you receive one of the following grades:   If you believe you have received a failing grade in error, you must discuss your situation with the instructor.Be sure to review all the university regulations concerning deferred examinations in section 16.3.8 I in the undergraduate calendar.Download and print the Request for “MED” Notation form.  You can also pick up the form at the:Fill out the Request for “MED” Notation and return it to the Birks Student Service Centre (LB-185) by the deadline and pay the $30 processing fee.TermDeadlineFallJanuary 15Fall/Winter (6-credits) or WinterMay 15SummerAugust 31Always submit the request form before the deadline. If you are missing any of the documents to support your request, you may submit them afterwards.Collect your supporting documents and submit them as soon as possible. The medical certificate must be on a physician’s original letterhead. While the nature of your medical condition does not need to be explained, we do require an indication of the range of dates when you were unable to perform schoolwork during the academic year. Photocopies of medical documents will not be accepted.All applications must be submitted along with a statement explaining the situation and the reasons for the request. All statements should be maximum one page long. Wait for us to process your request. We begin processing requests as soon as the official examination period is over and your final grade has been recorded. If your request is approved we will send you a letter about your MED notation.You may also visit Concordia’s Health Services Department where they can assess your medical condition and offer the appropriate assistance, provided you have been seen or followed at Health Services during the time of the extended illness.If you repeatedly submit medical certificates, the university reserves the right to refer you to a university-appointed physician for a recommendation.If your request is approved you have permission to write a replacement examination. Be sure to review all the university regulations concerning replacement examinations in section 16.3.7 II in the undergraduate calendar.If your course does not have a final exam and you have outstanding assignments, do apply for a MED notation. If you receive a grade with an “INC” notification, assume your request will be approved and do the work. If your request is denied, you may request permission to apply late for authorization to submit the necessary course work.You must complete any outstanding assignments and submit them by the deadline:FallFebruary 15Fall/Winter (6-credits) or WinterMay 30SummerSeptember 15Check with your instructor; some may have earlier deadlines than those stated above.Be sure to review all the university regulations concerning INC notations and late completion of course work in section 16.3.5 in the undergraduate calendar.The MED notation has no grade point value in the calculation of a grade point average, and it stays on your Concordia transcript until you fulfill all the requirements of the course. If you choose not to complete the requirements of the course and it is required for your degree, you would be required to re-register for it at a future date.Learn more about writing replacement examinationsExamination Office© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityMED notationsStudent hub
            
                Student hub
            What to do if a long-term
 medical situation interferes with your final examsEligibility for MED notations
                
            
                
					
                    How to apply for an MED notation
                
            
                
					
                    Incomplete course work and INC notationsWhat does an MED notation mean? INC notationsConnect with usConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424