http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/offices/ci/Research_Abroad/Mitacs_Globalink_Research_Award.htmlMitacs Globalink Research Awards provide an opportunity for Concordia senior undergraduate and graduate students to undertake a hands-on project abroad while developing research skills, cultural fluency, and their professional network. At the same time, faculty members can strengthen existing international research collaborations and connect with colleagues and industry around the world.  The Globalink Research Award offers full-time senior undergraduate and graduate students at Concordia the opportunity to undertake research abroad. Each research project will occur over a 12 to 24 week period and will be jointly supervised by faculty members in Canada and in a Mitacs partner country (Mexico, Brazil, India, and mainland China). Open to all academic disciplines. Call will open in September 2016.  The Globalink Research Internship offers a 12-week research project at Canadian universities for high-achieving senior undergraduates from Australia, Brazil, China, France, Germany, India, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, and Tunisia. Starting May 2017, approved students travel to Canada, where they work with a faculty supervisor and other researchers at their host universities.Interns receive:Deadline to apply: September 20, 2016, at 4:00 PM Pacific Daylight Time (PDT).For more information visit the Globalink Research Internships web page.The Globalink Partnership Award offers full-time graduate students at Concordia the opportunity to participate in a 16 to24 week research project with an international industry partner located in any country in the world (except the U.S.). Students spend a minimum of 25% of the research project at their home university and up to 75% with the industry partner abroad. Open to all academic disciplines. Applications are accepted anytime.The Globalink Research Award – Campus France and Globalink Research Award – Inria provide the opportunity for full-time senior undergraduate and graduate students to undertake research at a French university or an Inria Research Centre.Applications MUST be submitted to the Office of Research by: November 16, 2015Mitacs Deadline: November 20, 2015 The Globalink Research Award - MHRD India is a new competitive initiative that provides the opportunity for full-time senior undergraduate and graduate students to undertake research at one of the seven eligible Indian Institutes of Technology (IIT).Applications MUST be submitted to the Office of Research by: February 29, 2016
Mitacs Deadline: March 4, 2016 The Globalink Research Award – MHESR Tunisia is a new competitive initiative that provides the opportunity for senior undergraduate and graduate students to undertake research abroad at Tunisian universities.Applications MUST be submitted to the Office of Research by: February 29, 2016Mitacs Deadline: March 4, 2016 The Mitacs-JSPS Internship is a new competitive initiative that provides the opportunity for graduate students to pursue collaborative research in Japan, allowing them to advance their own research while promoting scientific progress in both Japan and Canada. Successful applicants will travel to Japan for a period of 10 weeks, from June 14 to August 24, 2016.Applications MUST be submitted to the Office of Research by: January 25, 2016Mitacs Deadline: January 29, 2016    Note: See Mitacs website for the specific eligibility criteria for each opportunity.Available funding differs for each of the programs. See website for full details. Students who meet all of the eligibility criteria and have identified a research project, a home supervisor, and a host supervisor, must complete the Mitacs application package and have their home supervisor submit a Grant Submission Form in ConRAD, attaching all the required documents. Once submitted, the Office of Research will sign the application and submit the package to MITACS directly, on behalf of the student.Mitacs will inform applicants if they have been selected for an award. If selected, Concordia International will contact the student to schedule a pre-departure meeting in order complete and sign the International Pre-departure Form required by Mitacs.Visit the Mitacs Globalink website for full details about these programs: www.mitacs.ca/en/programs/globalinkContact Mitacs International at international@mitacs.ca if you have any questions regarding the application or eligibility requirements. You can also contact Sarah Doig at Concordia International. © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityMitacs Globalink Research AwardPrograms
                
            
                
					
                    Globalink Research Award
                
            
                
					
                    The student call for applications for Globalink Research Internships 
                
            
                
					
                    Globalink Partnership Award
                
            
                
					
                    Call for Applications for Research Opportunities in France (CLOSED)
                
            
                
					
                    Call for Applications for Research Opportunities in India (CLOSED)
                
            
                
					
                    Call for Applications for Research Opportunities in Tunisia (CLOSED)
                
            
                
					
                    Call for Applications for Mitacs-JSPS Internship (CLOSED)
                
            
                
					
                    Eligibility
                
            
                
					
                    Funding
                
            
                
					
                    How to Apply
                
            
                
					
                    More InformationConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424