http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/undergraduate/non-business-students.htmlJMSB has developed a new elective course for non-business students. Introduction to Financial Management (COMM 299F) is offered through eConcordia. The following interdisciplinary programs are designed for non-business students seeking insight into the exciting world of business. Basic business knowledge is an excellent complement to any area of study. Courses offered within JMSB are available to non-business students up to a maximum of six credits per term, 30 credits total.
* Students choosing to add an elective group have the opportunity to add a business-oriented component to their arts, science, engineering or fine arts degrees. The 15-credit elective groups are available to students registered in undergraduate program outside the John Molson School of Business.This course provides an introduction to accounting concepts underlying financial statements of organizations. It focuses on the analysis, mea¬surement, and reporting of business transactions to users of financial statements. It also examines the uses and limitations of accounting information for investment and credit decisions.JMSB students may not take this course for credit.Students who receive a passing grade may be exempt from COMM 305.Students who have received credit for ACCO 220 may not take this course for credit.Prerequisite: ACCO 230. This course examines the role of accounting information for decision making, and focuses on concepts and techniques used in planning operations, controlling activities, and evaluating managerial performance. New developments are addressed with a focus on contemporary business issues and real-world applicability of management accounting concepts and techniques. NOTE: JMSB students may not take this course for credit.NOTE: Students who receive a passing grade may be exempt from COMM 305.NOTE: Students who have received credit for ACCO 220 may not take this course for credit.This course is intended to develop a basic understanding of the role of administration in our society. The course includes a survey of different forms of organizations, their social and legal responsibilities, and how they function to achieve their goals. NOTE: JMSB students may not take this course for credit.NOTE: This course does not count towards the requirements for the Minor in Business Studies.This course is designed to review the historical development of business (in Canada in particular) and to examine the relationships between the firm (management) and the owners, the employees, the customers, the government, and the community. Further, it studies some of the problems facing Canadian business today: the dehumanizing aspect, pollution problems, large vs. small firms, foreign ownership, competition, etc. NOTE: JMSB students may not take this course for credit.NOTE: This course does not count towards the requirements for the Minor in Business Studies.This course covers topics in information and communications technologies, including software, hardware, the Internet, and office productivity applications. Students learn about the technologies and their use, as well as acquire hands-on experience in key software applications.Students who have received credit or exemption for DESC 200, INTE 290, or for this topic under a COMM 499 number or equivalent, may not take this course for credit.Students enrolled in Mathematics and Statistics programs may not take this course for credit.
  COMM 299   Special Topics in Business - Marketing Yourself* (offered through eConcordia)This course is offered online. It is designed to help individuals better manage their current and future financial affairs. The course introduces the terminology and basic concepts underlying personal financial management. It helps students set goals and develop skills to conduct basic research when making personal financial decisions. The topics covered include financial planning, money management, personal income taxes, costs of consumer credit, concepts of time value of money, investing in stocks, bonds and mutual funds, mortgages, and retirement planning. NOTE: Finance Majors and Minors may not take this course for credit towards their Major or Minor.NOTE: Students who have received credit for this topic under a COMM 499 number may not take this course for credit.This course introduces the concepts, principles, analytical methods and tools used for investment, development, and evaluation of real estate assets. The course focuses on issues such as market and feasibility analysis, investment property analysis, forms of ownership, valuation by alternate approaches, mortgages, borrower-lender relationships, investing in income property, commercial property financing, real estate investment trusts (REITs), and legal and property rights among co-owners. NOTE: Finance Majors and Minors may not take this course for credit towards their Major or Minor.NOTE: Students who have received credit for FINA 450 or for this topic under a COMM 499 number may not take this course for credit.This course provides an overview of financial management and introduces the basic terms as well as the role finance plays in the firm and in markets. Specifically, this course covers the following topics: the importance of a working knowledge of finance to non-business students; the role of the financial manager; the differences between accounting income and cash flow, and between book value and market value; the role of interest rates in our economy; the interpretation of financial ratios; the concept of time value of money; and making financial decisions.NOTE: JMSB students may not take this course for credit.NOTE: This course does not count towards the requirements for the Minor in Business Studies.NOTE: Students who have received credit for this course under a COMM 299 number may not take this course for credit.This course introduces Non-Business students to the managerial concepts and practices of marketing. The process of developing a marketing strategy is examined along with the factors and interrelationships related thereto. Readings and cases are used to help students apply these concepts in a variety of business settings. This course is available to Non-Business program students only. Any such student intending to register in the Marketing Elective Group for Non-Business Students or intending to take specific upper-level Marketing courses must take this course as a prerequisite.Students who have received credit for MARK 213 or 350 may not take this course for credit.This course introduces students to the basic principles of management within a contemporary business context. The managerial process (e.g. planning, organizing, controlling, motivating) is explored in relation to issues such as ethical behaviour, the environment, global and economic forces as well as political, legal, and cultural changes. In addition to using basic readings in management, the course also relies on contemporary text from the newspaper and business publications to raise students' awareness of contemporary issues in business and develop the business knowledge and skills that will be applicable in their career.NOTE: JMSB students may not take this course for credit.NOTE: Students who have received credit for MANA 266 or COMM 210 may not take this course for credit.This course seeks to give students an understanding of behaviour in the workplace from an individual, group, and organizational perspective. Conceptual frameworks, case discussions, and self-assessment tools complement the course material. Topics include motivation, personality, job satisfaction, group dynamics, leadership skills, power and influence, managing change, diversity, and organizational culture.NOTE: JMSB students may not take this course for credit.NOTE: Students who have received credit for MANA 213 or COMM 222 may not take this course for credit.This course focuses on the emerging business environment, and how organizations implement ecologically, socially, and economically sustainable management. Sustainable strategies are explored within the context of global economic development, to develop organizational vision, products and processes for achieving long-term sustainable prosperity.NOTE: Students who have received credit for this course under a COMM 299 number may not take this course for credit.This course focuses on the emerging business environment, and how organizations implement ecologically, socially, and economically sustainable management. Sustainable strategies are explored within the context of global economic development, to develop organizational vision, products and processes for achieving long-term sustainable prosperity.Students who have received credit for this course under MANA 299 or a COMM 299 number may not take this course for credit.This final-year course offers students the opportunity to learn how to capitalize on their domain-specific knowledge and recognize opportunities for self-employment or new venture creation. The course assumes no background courses in business, but it presumes that students have already developed an interest in entrepreneurial careers within their respective fields of study. The first phase of the course exposes the fundamental concepts and issues in entrepreneurship and related business fields. The second phase introduces students to the elements of business planning in the context of entrepreneurial projects, followed by the third phase where students formulate their own business plans.Prerequisite: Completion of 60 credits in a non-business program.NOTE: JMSB students may not take this course for credit.NOTE: This course does not count toward the requirements of the Minor in Business Studies.
For complete course descriptions, please browse the Undergraduate Calendar. For dates and times offered please visit the Class schedule.To explore program options for non-business students, please consult Section 61.140 of the Undergraduate Calendar.Please note that since non-business students can only register for a maximum of 30 credits within the John Molson School of Business, students registered in the Minor in Business Studies, the BCompSc Information Systems Option, or the BSc Specialization in Physics/Marketing cannot register for the Basics of Business elective group. It is not open to BComm or BAdmin students, and not all elective-group credits are transferable to the BComm or BAdmin programs.Find out about the requirements for degree transfer or reserve your seat at the next Degree Transfer Information Session.
If you study at another university but would like to take courses at JMSB, find out our requirements for visiting students coming from inside or outside Quebec, or how you can join us as an independent student.
© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityOptions for non-business studentsJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessACCO 230   Introduction to Financial Accounting   (3.0 credits)
                
                    ACCO 240   Introduction to Managerial Accounting   (3.0 credits)
                
                    ADMI 201   Introduction to Administration   (3.0 credits)
                
                    ADMI 202   Perspective on Business   (3.0 credits)
                
                    BTM 200   Fundamentals of Information Technology    (3.0 credits)
                
                    FINA 200   Personal Finance   (3.0 credits)
                
                    FINA 210   Introduction to Real Estate   (3.0 credits)
                
                
					
                    FINA 230  Introduction to Financial Management (3.0 credits) 
                
            
                    MARK 201   Introduction to Marketing   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MANA 201   Introduction to Business and Management   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MANA 202   Human Behaviour in Organizations   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MANA 298   Business Law   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MANA 374   Sustainable Management    (3.0 credits)
                
                    MANA 300   Entrepreneurship: Launching Your Business   (3.0 credits)Online elective course for non-business studentsAdd a business component to your degreePopular business electivesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesTransfer studentsVisiting or independent studentsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424