http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/admissions/tuition-fees/how-fees-are-billed/other-graduate-programs.htmlThe University reserves the right to modify the published scale of tuition and other student fees without prior notice. This document contains the most current information on the University’s Financial Regulations and Fees and is the authoritative document regarding the University’s financial regulations as well as the billing of tuition and compulsory fees.Students enrolled in a graduate diploma, certificate or qualifying program and Independent students are charged tuition and compulsory fees on the basis of their registration in a credit course and certain course notations, e.g. STOQ 001 Studies outside Quebec, CWT 001 Coop Work Term.Tuition fees are charged on a “per credit” basis for each academic credit assigned to a course. Compulsory fees are charged on a “per academic course credit” or “per term” registered basis; and are sometimes charged on an annual basis or “one-time” basis.The fee rates and basis on which each fee is charged are outlined in the following sections.Every graduate program of study has an academic time limit (a specified number of academic terms) in which a student must successfully complete all diploma or certificate requirements and apply to graduate.  This information is available in the Graduate Calendar.A deficiency course is a course which must be taken in addition to the nominal credits in a student’s program and do not apply to the certificate or diploma program. Deficiency credits may include graduate or undergraduate courses.Tuition and compulsory fees are charged on each prerequisite and deficiency registered course.Once the student has completed the total number of terms within the academic time limit and has not yet met the degree requirements in order to graduate, the student may apply to their Graduate Program Director for an academic time limit extension (TLE). If a TLE is granted, a TLE fee plus compulsory fees will be charged in each TLE term.Courses not taken for credit are registered under a student’s graduate program and an Audit grade is recorded to the student’s record. Audited courses are charged tuition and compulsory fees on a “per credit” basis. These fees are charged in addition to, and concurrently with, the tuition and compulsory fees charged on nominal program credits, continuation and compulsory fees, or time limit extension and compulsory fees.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityOther graduate programs1. Tuition and compulsory fees2. Academic Time Limits3. Prerequisite or deficiency course fees4. Time limit extension and compulsory fees5. Audit course feesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/admissions/tuition-fees/how-fees-are-billed/other-graduate-programs.htmlThe University reserves the right to modify the published scale of tuition and other student fees without prior notice. This document contains the most current information on the University’s Financial Regulations and Fees and is the authoritative document regarding the University’s financial regulations as well as the billing of tuition and compulsory fees.Students enrolled in a graduate diploma, certificate or qualifying program and Independent students are charged tuition and compulsory fees on the basis of their registration in a credit course and certain course notations, e.g. STOQ 001 Studies outside Quebec, CWT 001 Coop Work Term.Tuition fees are charged on a “per credit” basis for each academic credit assigned to a course. Compulsory fees are charged on a “per academic course credit” or “per term” registered basis; and are sometimes charged on an annual basis or “one-time” basis.The fee rates and basis on which each fee is charged are outlined in the following sections.Every graduate program of study has an academic time limit (a specified number of academic terms) in which a student must successfully complete all diploma or certificate requirements and apply to graduate.  This information is available in the Graduate Calendar.A deficiency course is a course which must be taken in addition to the nominal credits in a student’s program and do not apply to the certificate or diploma program. Deficiency credits may include graduate or undergraduate courses.Tuition and compulsory fees are charged on each prerequisite and deficiency registered course.Once the student has completed the total number of terms within the academic time limit and has not yet met the degree requirements in order to graduate, the student may apply to their Graduate Program Director for an academic time limit extension (TLE). If a TLE is granted, a TLE fee plus compulsory fees will be charged in each TLE term.Courses not taken for credit are registered under a student’s graduate program and an Audit grade is recorded to the student’s record. Audited courses are charged tuition and compulsory fees on a “per credit” basis. These fees are charged in addition to, and concurrently with, the tuition and compulsory fees charged on nominal program credits, continuation and compulsory fees, or time limit extension and compulsory fees.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityOther graduate programs1. Tuition and compulsory fees2. Academic Time Limits3. Prerequisite or deficiency course fees4. Time limit extension and compulsory fees5. Audit course feesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424