http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/phd/students/phases-committee.htmlThe minimum number of credits will be determined upon acceptance to the program. Students without a formal academic background in business administration will be required to take up to five 3-credit courses, usually at the MBA, or MSc level, from among the following disciplines: business economics, organizational behaviour, supply chain and business technology management, marketing, finance, business policy and strategy, accountancy and control. Up to two of these courses may be in the student’s intended area of PhD specialization. Students may also be required to take Applied Linear Statistical Models and Multivariate Data Analysis depending on previous studies.Courses in Phase I are not taken as part of the program of study and will, therefore, be subject to the relevant tuition fees.
Various Linear Model topics in statistical analysis applied to business and economic problems will be reviewed. This will include design of experiments, analysis of variance, multiple regression, model building, multi-collinearity influential observations, variable selection techniques, ANOVA models with random effects, analysis of covariance etc. Case studies illustrating the different areas of application will be used.This seminar is designed to introduce students to several multivariate analysis techniques with emphasis on the practical use of these tools in business research. Techniques that will be covered in this course include MANOVA, discriminant analysis, principal components and factor analysis, canonical correlation analysis and multidimensional scaling. The objective of the seminar is to provide a fundamental understanding of the nature, power, and the limitations of multivariate statistical techniques.
Note: MSCA 602/683 may not be required depending on previous studies.
 In this phase, the program of study is determined by the student’s Phase II supervisory committee. The minimum requirement of this phase is 30 credits. All students take one 3-credit compulsory course in pedagogy (ADMI 880) or approved equivalent, and one 3-credit compulsory course in Research Methodology (ADMI 870) or approved equivalent. All other seminars in the Phase II program will depend on each student’s field of interest, but will generally be organized around one area of specialization. The area of specialization can be: organizational behaviour, supply chain, business technology management, marketing, finance, business policy/strategy, and accountancy; a related interdisciplinary field (such as international business); or a significant subfield (such as consumer behaviour). Students must take a minimum of four seminars (12 credits) in their area of specialization (Phase II, elective courses), and a minimum of one additional course (3 credits) which may be in their area of specialization or in another area as determined by their supervisor, followed by a set of comprehensive examinations (ADMI 889, 6 credits). Directed Reading Courses may not be taken for credit.
ADMI 870 - Research Methodology or approved equivalent (3 credits) 
ADMI 880 - Pedagogical Methods or approved equivalent (3 credits) 
ADMI 889 - Comprehensive Examinations (6 credits)

Courses offered in the following disciplines may vary in content from term to term and from year to year
ADMI 800-809 - Business Economics
ADMI 810-819 - Organizational Behaviour
ADMI 820-829 - Decision Sciences and Management Information Systems
ADMI 830-839 - Marketing
ADMI 840-849 - Finance
ADMI 850-859 - Business Policy and Strategy
ADMI 860-869 - Accountancy and ControlDownload Phase II FormStudents should begin to consider the composition of their Phase II Committee during the first term of their first year. The form must be submitted to the PhD Program Office prior to the final semester of coursework.
The student forms a Phase II committee consisting of a minimum of 3 qualified faculty members. "Qualified" means that committee members are "experts" in the subject areas that are relevant to the student's planned program of study and have a PhD degree. Committee membership should comprise the following: 
The Phase II form must be re-approved if any significant changes are made, e.g., changes in the committee composition, course changes, etc.As each student enters Phase III of the program, the School’s PhD committee approved the Phase III committee. The Phase III committee supervises all stages of the thesis (60 credits) from the initial proposal through to the final defence.
ADMI 890 - Thesis (60 credits)Download Phase III FormThe Phase III committee should be formed within one (1) semester of completion of Phase II (Comprehensive Examinations). This form must be submitted to the PhD Program Office.
The committee may remain the same as for Phase II or may be changed as the student desires. The student forms a Phase III committee consisting of at least three interested and qualified faculty members. The Chair of the Committee (Supervisor) must be from Concordia and will be the person primarily responsible for the student. One of the members must be from within the Joint Program at one of the other three affiliated universities. The members of this committee must all have earned PhD's. 
The Phase III form must be re-approved if any significant changes are made, e.g., changes in the committee composition, course changes, etc.Program director
Thomas Walker, Associate Dean, Research & Research ProgramsProgram assistant
 Room: MB 11.331
Tel: 514-848-2424, ext. 7352© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityPhases & committeeJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessMSCA 602   Applied Linear Statistical Models   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MSCA 683   Multivariate Data Analysis   (3.0 credits)Prerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesRelated documentsHelpful linksContactsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Phase I (Qualifying) CoursesPhase II (Required Courses)
Phase II (Elective Courses)Phase II Committee CompositionChanges to the Phase II FormPhase III (Thesis)Formation of Phase III CommitteeCommittee CompositionChanges to the Phase III Form