http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/photography-mfa.htmlArtistic photography moves beyond mere representation to convey an image in accordance with the artist’s vision. Photographs can manifest emotions, dispute societal narratives or provide alternative views of reality. Now more than ever, we need practicing and emerging artist-researchers to produce bodies of work that value the importance of critical inquiry and rely heavily on intellectual exchange.The MFA in Studio Arts, Photography concentration, enables you to expand your skills in fine art photography and develop your voice as an artist. Our acclaimed faculty of researchers and photographic artists will provide critical feedback on your work and guidance on how to navigate the art world. These hands-on experiences effectively prepare all third-year graduate students to create their own professional-level exhibition within a public forum.Benefit from cutting-edge facilities that promote both analogue and digital processes. Our resources and individualized technical support allow students to work across specialties and sizes, including large-scale photographic prints. Past students have developed expertise in colour photography, black and white photography, installation and photography, sculpture and photography, and documentary.Since our department is comprised of seven disciplinary programs, you’ll be in the company of students working in fibres and material practices, film production, intermedia, painting and drawing, print media and sculpture. This dynamic learning environment, as well as the larger university community, will encourage you to consider interdisciplinary approaches as you develop your artwork.Requirements for the DegreeAdmission Requirements. A Bachelor of Fine Arts or a Bachelor of Arts with a Fine Arts or Fine Arts and Art History major, or an approved equivalent, from a recognized institution and with at least a B average in the major area is required. Applicants to the Film Production concentration are expected to have a Bachelor of Fine Arts or Bachelor of Arts degree in cinema or an approved equivalent with at least a B average in the major area. In all cases the students’ undergraduate experience and proficiency must be relevant to the area in which they plan to specialize at the graduate level.Note: Students with a BFA from Concordia University must wait two (2) years before being considered for admission into the MFA program.Please apply online and see the how-to-guide for application procedures. Visit the department website for application and portfolio requirements.Consult the graduate calendar for a complete list of current courses.Our graduate students are guaranteed a three-credit teaching assistantship in their first year of studies and a six-credit assistantship in their second year. TAs receive $1,000 in year one and $2,000 in year two.Third-year students can apply to teach a three- or six-credit course, valued at $8,606 and $17,212 respectively. These positions are awarded on a competitive basis.Employment opportunities also exist as Research Assistants in university and faculty research centres, Milieux Institute and Post-Image.Other funding sources include the Roloff Beny Foundation Fellowship in Photography, worth $10,000, and the Mildred Lande and Margot Lande Graduate Scholarship in Photography.Please also consult Concordia’s graduate funding page and Financial Aid and Awards.Graduate students work in studios on the 3rd and 4th floors of the EV Building and have access to a large print finishing area and two fully equipped shooting studios. A wide range of portable photographic equipment is also available, including digital, 4x5 and 6x7 cameras, electronic flash kits, soft boxes, tripods, light meters and other accessories. Students should have their own 35mm camera for basic courses.Our digital facilities include:The facilities also include a colour darkroom equipped with the following analogue equipment:Read more about our photography facilities.Review an inspiring gallery of student works and read about some of our exceptional graduate students.Our alumni find success in a wide range of professional art careers. Many operate as independent artists who exhibit and publish their work around the world. Others work in galleries as directors, assistant directors, administrators and attendants. Several graduates have opened their own galleries or businesses.A number of our graduates also pursue careers as educators. Our alumni can be found teaching in institutions like OCAD University, George Brown College, the University of Ottawa, Champlain College, the University of British Columbia, and California State University, Long Beach.Email: MFA.StudioArts@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 4607Location: 
 1395 René-Lévesque Blvd. W.,  VA 250-6
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 2M5Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityStudio Arts, Photography (MFA)Degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Funding
                
            
                
					
                    Facilities
                
            
                
					
                    Emerging ideas — student projects
                
            
                
					
                    Your professional future
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a master's in Studio Arts, Photography?Program DetailsRelated ProgramsMaster of Fine Arts (MFA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424