http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/cissc/about/post-docs.htmlSanja Dejanovic's postdoctoral project is on freedom conceived of as a mutual letting become; a kind of freedom through which it is possible to approach all beings, not merely the human being, as capable of experiencing freedom. Such experience of freedom is explored in her work through embodied temporality, aesthetic ecology, as well as the logic of capture and violence. During the first year of her postdoc, she was under the mentorship of Dr. Bruce Matthews, Philosophy, Bard College, and during her time at Concordia she will be directed by Dr. Erin Manning.Dr. Dejanovic began her exploration of the above-mentioned themes in the context of her research for her doctoral thesis at York University, entitled The Paradox of Sense, or on the Event of Thought in Gilles Deleuze’s Philosophy. Drawing from this writing, she is working on a book project on Deleuze and Guattari’s philosophy provisionally entitled “We Are Made of Lines”.Dr. Dejanovic is the editor of Nancy and the Political with Edinburgh University Press, 2015, and has published a number of journal articles, including, “Through the Fold: On Gilles Deleuze and Jean-Luc Nancy” in Philosophy Today.Roberto Jaén Chacon is a Visiting Research Fellow and sponsored by the Early Leaders of the Americas Program (ELAP). A graduate of the International Film and Television School in Cuba, Roberto is native of Costa Rica and, while at Concordia, is working on a project about the narrative structure of television pilots at Concordia.Nadine Blumer’s dissertation, From Victim Hierarchies to Memorial Networks: Berlin’s Holocaust Memorial to Sinti and Roma Victims of National Socialism, examined how Romani Holocaust memory has both influenced and been influenced by memory of Jewish victimization in Germany’s historical narrative. Under the supervision of Erica Lehrer, Nadine will pursue the first comprehensive analysis of Canada’s newest federal cultural institution, in the project, Virtual Multiculturalism: Curatorial Strategies and New Media at the Canadian Museum for Human Rights.Jenny Doubt received a Ph.D. in English Literature from the Open University, UK. Her dissertation, Performing and Inscribing HIV/AIDS in Post-Apartheid South Africa investigated how cultural texts intervene in debates about HIV/AIDS and help empower the most vulnerable among the HIV-affected in post-apartheid South Africa.  Affiliated with the Centre for Ethnographic Research and Exhibition in the Aftermath of Violence (CEREV) she curated a multimedia exhibition around a range of South African HIV/AIDS ‘testimonies’ from 2005–2013, exploring the mediation, performance, and circulation of HIV-related cultural products relating to the experiences of HIV-affected individuals.Associate Professor in the philosophy department at Oberlin College Katherine Thomson-Jones had the support of an ACLS Fellowship to work on a book about the philosophy of the digital arts. Her interest in the digital arts grew out of her work in the philosophy of film. She has published papers on cinematic narration, engagement, and formalism, and recently became interested in the aesthetic implications of the shift to digital filmmaking. Outside of the philosophy of film, she has published on imagination and ethical art criticism and is the author of Aesthetics and Film (Continuum 2008) and co-editor of New Waves in Aesthetics (Palgrave Macmillan 2008).Monica Eileen Patterson was affiliated with the Centre for Ethnographic Research and Exhibition in the Aftermath of Violence (CEREV) in the Department of History at Concordia. She received her doctorate in Anthropology and History and an additional certificate in Museum Studies from the University of Michigan. At CEREV, Monica worked on a monograph examining contested constructions of childhood in late apartheid South Africa, from 1976 to the early 1990s when negotiations for the transition to democracy began and an experimental exhibit that allowed former and current South Africian children to reflect on their experiences of childhood and explore the meanings of the apartheid past and its present-day legacies.© Concordia UniversityAbout the Centre
Working Groups
Events, lectures and conferences
PhD in Humanities
NewsConcordia UniversityPost-doctoral fellowsFaculty of Arts and Science
            
                Faculty of Arts and Science
            Current post-docsRecent post-docsPast post-docsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Sanja Dejanovic, Postdoctoral Fellow, PhD Political Thought, York University, 2016Roberto Jaén Chacon, Visiting Research Fellow, January-July 2015Nadine Blumer, Postdoctoral Fellow, Ph.D. Sociology, University of Toronto, Fall 2014Jenny Doubt, Postdoctoral Fellow, Open University, UK, Winter 2014Katherine Thomson-Jones, ACLS Visiting Scholar, Oberlin College, Summer 2013Monica Patterson, Banting Postdoctoral Fellow, 2012-2014