http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/print-media-mfa.htmlToday’s print culture integrates both traditional and contemporary tools and techniques for artists to explore their ideas through print media. Our students incorporate the spatial understandings of reproduction, as well as the multiple and digital media in expanded print practices. We need artist-researchers to investigate the meaningful relationships that exist between the technologies of reproduction, individual expression and society through this contemporary lens.The MFA in Studio Arts, Print Media concentration, provides you with a forum to articulate your artistic vision as an artist/printmaker. Our celebrated faculty members are deeply steeped in the expertise of traditional and expanded print practices and will supply you with regular feedback on your artwork in preparation for your concluding exhibition and defense.You’ll benefit from some of the best facilities in Canada dedicated to lithography, intaglio, screen printing, relief, book arts and digital printing. Montreal’s rich print culture history will inform your work, with its concentration of galleries, collections and archives. The city is also home to significant print studios where many of our students do residencies, become members and serve on their boards of directors.Since our department is comprised of seven disciplinary programs, you’ll be in the company of students working in fibres and material practices, film production, intermedia, painting and drawing, photography, and sculpture. This vibrant learning environment will encourage you to consider interdisciplinary approaches as you develop your artwork. Requirements for the DegreeAdmission Requirements. A Bachelor of Fine Arts or a Bachelor of Arts with a Fine Arts or Fine Arts and Art History major, or an approved equivalent, from a recognized institution and with at least a B average in the major area is required. Applicants to the Film Production concentration are expected to have a Bachelor of Fine Arts or Bachelor of Arts degree in cinema or an approved equivalent with at least a B average in the major area. In all cases the students’ undergraduate experience and proficiency must be relevant to the area in which they plan to specialize at the graduate level.Note: Students with a BFA from Concordia University must wait two (2) years before being considered for admission into the MFA program.Please apply online and see the how-to-guide for application procedures. Visit the department website for application and portfolio requirements.During the first two years of the program, students combine seminar courses with independent, supervised studio practice. The third year is devoted to studio practice and production.Courses typically offered include:See the program structure and consult the graduate calendar for a complete list of current courses.A limited number of Teaching Assistantships are automatically assigned to registered students in the 1st and 2nd year of study. Graduate students teach a limited number of undergraduate courses in their third year of study. These positions are awarded on a competitive basis.Employment opportunities also exist as Research Assistants in the faculty’s research centres.Please also consult Concordia’s graduate funding page and Financial Aid and Awards.Our facilities are fully equipped, spacious and located in sunlit studios on the 9th floor of the EV building. You’ll have access to:Read more about our print media facilities.Graduate students have access to various other research centres, including the Milieux Institute for Arts, Culture and Technology.Review an inspiring display of student works and read about some of our exceptional graduate students.Many of our alumni have gone on to successful careers in teaching at postsecondary levels. Graduates also pursue a variety of careers in the arts. Our graduates are independent artists, gallerists, board members of artist run centres, printers, bookbinders, animators, and involved with the do-it-yourself ‘zine and maker scene.Email: MFA.StudioArts@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 4607Location: 
 1395 René Lévesque Blvd. W.,  VA 250-6
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 2M5Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityStudio Arts, Print Media (MFA)Degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Funding
                
            
                
					
                    Facilities
                
            
                
					
                    Emerging ideas — student projects
                
            
                
					
                    Your professional future
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a masters in Studio Arts, Print Media?Program DetailsRelated ProgramsMaster of Fine Arts (MFA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424