http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/graduation-convocation/students/regalia.htmlYour convocation gown — the hood showing the colours associated with your degree — is the academic dress you wear during the ceremony. All participants, including faculty on stage, wear academic regalia. Be sure to pick up your gown, marshalling card, and have your photo taken.    The gown and hood you wear will depend on whether you’re receiving your bachelor/baccalaureate, master/magisteriate or doctorate degree. See what academic dress you’ll be wearing for Convocation and instructions on how to wear it.When you pick up your gown and marshaling card, your attendance at Convocation is confirmed!You can pick up your gown, two (2) guest tickets and marshalling card at the McConnell Building (LB Building), 1400 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West on the following date and time:
** Please bring your Concordia Student ID card and a re-usable bag with you to carry your gown and hood!If you can’t attend gown distribution, a friend or family member can pick up your gown, two (2) guest tickets and marshaling card on your behalf.After gown distribution, extra tickets may be available, to a maximum of two (2) additional tickets per graduate, starting at 10:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m. on Friday, 4 November 2016 in the Atrium of the McConnell Building (LB Building). These tickets will be distributed on a first-come, first-served basis. Please note that the person you send on your behalf must present your marshalling card in order to receive these tickets.That person must have written authorization from you that includes the following:Bring your gown and hood backstage after the ceremony but before you leave Place des Arts.If you do not return your gown and hood, the gown supplier will bill you for their full value. We will also withhold university transcripts until the gown and hood are returned or their full replacement cost has been paid. Ceremony dates and times are subject to change without notice. Please note that Concordia may tape, film, webcast or broadcast the ceremony.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityGraduation gownsGraduation & convocation
            
                Graduation & convocationWhat happens at gown distribution?
                
            
                
					
                    What if I'm unable to pick up my gown?
                
            
                
					
                    When do I return my gown and hood?Gown distributionThursday, November 3, 2016 from 9:30 a.m. to 7 p.m.Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424REMINDERS: