http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/science-college/research.htmlConduct real research and gain scientific experience – as an undergradAn important component of the College's unique program is the requirement that students participate in work of an active research group in some branch of science, in every one of their undergraduate years. These research projects allow students to acquire first-hand scientific experience. The research may be carried out with scientists at Concordia or at some other university or research institution. In recent years, students have completed projects at universities like Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Rochester, Frankfurt, Freiberg, Paris, Berlin, Innsbruck, San Diego, Johns Hopkins, London University, England, Simon Fraser University, Barbados, Miami and others. The work of the student is supervised and graded either by a faculty member or by an academically qualified person at the outside institution. An attractive aspect of this program is that students are expected to participate in research projects outside their field. One can find a physics student doing experiments in neurophysiology, or a biology student participating in a computer project. This program is the core of our curriculum and is unique in Canada. Students are not just doing laboratory exercises. They are active and interested participants in the resolution of current scientific problems. This role both sharpens their understanding of science and gives them first-hand experience with what to expect from a scientific career. It has been our experience that the most interested and motivated students would rather do the research than view it from a distance.The college has its own library.© Concordia UniversityLoyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
See Loyola Campus mapConcordia UniversityResearchScience College
            
                Science CollegeConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/education/research.htmlThe faculty members are a diverse group of educators committed to excellence in teaching, research and community service. They are well known for their strong research profiles that inform their teaching and afford graduate students the opportunity to work on cutting edge research. A healthy level of external research funding enables faculty members to provide financial assistance to many qualified students.COPAL is a refereed journal of local and international scope, dedicated to the publication of a wide range of ongoing research by students and faculty in the fields of TESOL and Applied Linguistics (including first and second language acquisition, sociolinguistics, and psycholinguistics). Each volume consists of two issues, published in the summer and winter of every year.Established in 1988 and based at Concordia University, the Centre for the Study of Learning and Performance (CSLP) is a research centre consisting of over 50 principal members from 10 different research institutions.  The CSLP has led a variety of innovative research and development projects, involving hundreds of students from elementary, secondary and postsecondary educational institutions.ALERT is team of applied linguists working within the CSLP.  The ALERT project applies an innovative multi-dimensional approach to understanding and enhancing language learning. The multi-dimensional approach refers to an analysis of grammatical (morphosyntactic), lexical, and phonological aspects of a learning problem with a specific focus on the interactions between these aspects.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityResearchDepartment of Education
            
                Department of Education
            Research newsCOPAL | Concordia University Working Papers in Applied LinguisticsCSLP | Center for the Study of Learning and PerformanceALERT | Acquiring Language Efficiently: Research and TeachingConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/research/composites/research.htmlThe reserachers at the CONCOM center covers many areas: polymer composites, nanocomposites, polymer/metalic alloy, design of composite structures, testing of materials structures and properties, and development of new materials and manufacturing techniques.Some projects:Download the files for Composite damage workshop 19
 
Includes:
CDW19 Participants list
CDW19 Abstracts
CDW19 Information
Presentations
Recordings
Tools CONCOM Research Acitivity Report 2012-2013 (PDF)CrossRef Search
A group of 29 leading journal publishers are participating in a CrossRef Search Pilot. Powered by Google.American Chemical Society (ACS)
 The American Chemical Society is the leading publisher of peer-reviewed research journals in the chemical and related sciences.Springer Link 
One of the world's leading interactive databases for high-quality STM journals, book series, books, reference works and online Archive Collections.Science Direct
A leading full-text scientific database offering journal articles and book chapters from nearly 2,500 journals and more than 30,000 books.Wiley Online Library
A leading international resource for quality content promoting discovery across the spectrum of scientific, technical, medical and professional endeavors.Canadian Intellectual Property Office© Concordia UniversitySir George Williams Campus
Concordia Center for Composites
EV 4-145
1515 St. Catherine
Montreal, QC, H3G 2W1
CanadaSee SGW campus mapConcordia UniversityResearchConcordia Center for Composites (CONCOM)
            
                Concordia Center for Composites (CONCOM)Ongoing research projects
                
            
                
					
                    Composite workshopsResearch activity reportsExternal journals and publicationsPatents and intellectual propertyConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/cissc/phd-humanities/research.htmlHumanities PhD projects can be undertaken in any of the many areas of interdisciplinary expertise at Concordia, including the Research Currents listed below. Click on each one to find links to Concordia faculty members whose work has been influential in opening up and charting these fields. This list is illustrative, not exhaustive – there are many other potential avenues of interdisciplinary research for you to explore at Concordia, and we welcome your proposals!Recently there has been a rapidly mounting interest in the notion of ‘curating’ as an artistic practice, as a cultural phenomenon, and as an academic discipline. Curating involves the presentation of information and ideas through assemblage, selection, and display or performance of “objects” in a range of media, including artifacts, art, images, sound, stories, media and texts. It also extends to discussion and debates. While the dictionary defines ’curator’ as “one who has the care and superintendence of something, especially a museum, zoo, or other place of exhibit,” the recent explosion of curatorial activity in ever-widening domains of practice make the role of the curator more visible and significant. Curatorial practice, and the analytical study of curating, habitually transcend and dissolve traditional disciplinary boundaries and intellectual fault lines; history, art, ethnology, science and multi-media design are often deployed side by side in a variety of formal and vernacular venues and exhibition spaces. The study of curatorial practice is therefore impossible without wide-ranging interdisciplinary studies in society and culture. At Concordia, scholars from a wide range of disciplines explore the role and significance of curatorial practice and theory for the production, dissemination and canonization of knowledge and ideas in the 21st century.Sample list of participating faculty membersSite of related interest:Sample list of participating faculty membersConcordia’s famed Hexagram Institute is the site of some of the most advanced research in digital culture in the world. Digital culture is the culture that comes after print, the culture we are in now - where everything and everyone can be virtually yours, and the distinction between life on- and offline is increasingly blurred. Discover the rich and variegated strands of research on /in digital culture at Concordia by exploring the Hexagram websiteSample list of participating faculty membersSite of related interest Concordia University has a tradition of research and inquiry on matters related to Indigenous peoples. As befits the inherently interdisciplinary nature of First Peoples Studies, Concordia researchers working in this area come from a variety of disciplines and blend different methodologies and theoretical frameworks both to reveal the richness and complexity of Indigenous peoples’ ways, and to develop new analytical and interpretive perspectives inspired by them as well as engaging with Indigenous research methodologies and decolonization of knowledge. The creation of a First Peoples Studies research current at the graduate level complements the undergraduate program in First Peoples Studies housed in the School of Community and Public Affairs. Concordia University is also a member and partner institution of DIALOG – Aboriginal People Research and Knowledge Network. Financially supported by the Social Science and Humanities Research Council and the Fonds de recherche du Québec - société et culture, this network offers Concordia faculty and students numerous opportunities for research, research development and interaction with other researchers interested in First Peoples Studies in Quebec, Canada and internationally.Sample list of participating faculty membersThe study of food and foodways has emerged as a vital topic of interdisciplinary research. Beginning a few years back with the creation of the Food Studies Research Group, Concordia faculty have been meeting regularly to exchange ideas on a wide range of food-related subjects, including:Sample list of participating faculty membersThe recently established Fonds Quebecois de Recherche en Société et Culture (FQRSC) Research Chair in Gambling is based in the Lifestyle and Addiction Research Lab. It is held by Sylvia Kairouz of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology. The Chair aims to generate a multi-dimensional and multi-level framework for gambling research, integrating individual, contextual and socio-cultural elements in sustaining prevention. Research into the effectiveness of diverse actions to prevent gambling addiction will be carried out in conjunction with key stakeholders at the provincial, federal and international level. Central to the Chair’s mission is developing a highly qualified next generation of researchers. Substantial resources for recruitment and training are reserved for this purpose in the Chair’s budget. Students interested in becoming players in this very dynamic new area of social scientific research should contact the Chair.Sample list of participating faculty membersSite of related interestDrawing on the expertise and resources of the Concordia research centre in Technoculture, Art and Games as well as numerous other departments across campus Game Studies and Design is a SIP current focused on the emergent interdisciplinary fields of game studies and game design. The home “base” for students working in this area is TAG, a collaborative-project based research centre with strong links to the Montreal game design community as well as Canadian and International digital culture and game studies research networks.Sample list of participating faculty membersSite of related interestSample list of participating faculty membersIranian Studies at Concordia are interdisciplinary, drawing on faculty expertise and student interests in the fields of religion, history, literature, linguistics, sociology, anthropology, women’s studies, art and architecture. The wide scope of Iran-related research and teaching at Concordia reflects the extraordinarily broad impact of Iranian civilization on the world’s diverse cultures, from the Balkans to China and India, over a span of some three thousand years.For students wishing to conduct research at the MA or PhD levels on Iran-related topics beyond the scope of existing departmental concentrations (such as Religion, or Film Studies), SIP offers the possibility to devise a program tailored to the student’s individual interests in consultation with faculty having exertise on Iran. Faculty strengths include Iran’s cultural history, including literature, art, and mythology, as well as contemporary Iranian society. In addition, Concordia is the only university in Canada to offer instruction in pre-Islamic Iranian languages such as Avestan, Pahlavi, Bactrian and Sogdian.Core facultyIreland’s rich culture and its complex history of two evolving linguistic, religious and social traditions offer opportunities to engage in a genuinely interdisciplinary study of a broad spectrum of topics. In studying Ireland’s literature, politics, ethnomusicology, dance, language, film, theatre, landscape, folklore, economics, women’s studies, religion, material culture and the visual arts, students will inevitably encounter a spectrum of larger issues. These include: colonialism and empire; nationalism and post-colonialism; cultural nationalism and linguistic preservation; rebellion, partition and political devolution; famine, emigration and exile; diasporic settlement and integration; mass trauma, cultural memory and public commemoration; sectarianism, conflict resolution and the politics of peace and reconciliation; the role of place, landscape and memory in identity formation; shifts in national and religious affiliations; and the transformation of regional economies within transnational political structures and the forces of globalization.To study Ireland, therefore, is not only to learn about a unique culture and a complicated history but, through a multidisciplinary framework, to become familiar with intellectual issues, academic debates, critical methodologies and research findings that can be relevant to, and instructive for, other national and immigrant groups.The participating faculty members include:Site of related interest:Law affects all aspects of our lives. It structures our social, economic and political relationships, it allocates and protects property entitlements, it defines and punishes crime and deviance, and it frames controversial ethical, moral and political debates. Research into "law and society" involves interdisciplinary inquiries into law not as a set of rules, but rather as a panoply of discursive practices which are both structured by and contribute to the structuring of the social context. Concordia researchers in various disciplines in the humanities and social sciences have opened up exciting new vistas in socio-legal studies, exploring such topics as front-line justice, cross-cultural jurispridence, the judicialization of politics, alternative perspectives on human rights,international immigration, and the evolution of environmental law.Sample list of participating faculty membersSite of related interestConcordia University has emerged as a global leader in oral history and community-engaged research-creation, learning with communities and not simply about them. Faculty members in this research stream are committed to participatory approaches to personal and place-based storytelling and pedagogy, exploring the points of connection between oral history, performance, digital media, public memory, architecture and the built environment, community art education, life writing, and other approaches. As performance studies theorist Della Pollock has written, the interdisciplinary field of oral history is the process of "making history in dialogue": it is "co-creative, co-embodied, specially framed, contextually and intersubjectively contingent, sensuous, vital, artful."Sample list of participating faculty membersSite of related interestPerformance Studies takes performance as an organizing concept for the study of a wide range of behavior both on stage and off, with a focus on embodied cultural practices and live events. Founded at the crossroads of 20th Century interdisciplinary and intercultural creation in the performing arts, and the “performative turn” in cultural, aesthetic, and political theory, Performance Studies draws on theories of embodiment, event, and agency much the way Cultural Studies emphasizes literature, media, and the concept of “text” in its analysis of a broad range of phenomena. A lens through which to view any social, cultural, political, or aesthetic process – from local, vernacular phenomena of everyday life to collective representations and formations of identity – performance has become a useful tool for Anthropology, Folklore, Sociology, Linguistics, Communications, Media Arts, and even Law, as well as in the more familiar fields of Theatre, Dance, or Music Studies. In more recent performance scholarship, the line between human and non-human performer has been decisively blurred, and Performance Studies has investigated the performing object, installation arts, immersive entertainments, and techniques of museum and exhibition display. The breadth and diversity of Performance Studies scholarship encourages crossover between the arts, humanities, and social sciences – between research and creation – even as it questions boundaries between subjects and objects of study, as well as the foundation and development of the academic disciplines themselves.Sample list of participating faculty membersSite of related interestThe study of the senses and perception has traditionally been the preserve of psychologists. In recent years, scholars of other disciplines have “come to their senses,” and converged on the sensorium as an object of study. Concordia is at the forefront of this shift, which has resulted in the emergence of such subfields as the sociology, anthropology, and philosophy of the senses. Sensory studies is the name commonly ascribed to this emergent domain of inquiry. 
Concordia researchers in the humanities and social sciences ask such questions as: Do men’s and women’s senses differ? How might the number and order of the senses vary across cultures? Why the “race to embrace the senses” in contemporary marketing? How can the philosophy of mind be enriched through taking the moving, sensing body as its point of departure? 
Concordia is also at the leading edge of much research in the development and application of new sensing technologies. From the design of sentient buildings and clothing to the incorporation of sensors and elaborate computerized programs into “live” performances, Concordians are constantly expanding the bounds of sense.Sample list of participating faculty membersSite of related interestSexuality studies at Concordia draw from a variety of disciplines including psychology, political science, history, communications, literary studies, sociology and anthropology, film studies, art history, health sciences, medicine, social work and women’s studies. Sexuality has been shown to have intimate links with questions of epistemology (Sedgwick), political and social regulation (Foucault), culture, technology and representation (de Lauretis), creative process (Bataille), and the very sources of the psyche (Freud). To study sexuality, therefore, is to engage in a multidisciplinary enterprise, one that touches on questions central to twentieth- and twenty-first-century thought in a variety of disciplines and methods. For students wishing to conduct research at the MA or PhD level on topics related to sexualities, the Special Individualized Programs and/or Humanities Doctoral Programs offer the possibility of devising a research program tailored to each individual student’s interests in consultation with two or three faculty members having expertise in sexuality studies. Potential areas include, for example, health, the body, work, sexual diversity, and sex and artistic and cultural production.Core facultyHow would the world be different if we started from the position of “the Other” rather than from Self? What could be created and built if we started from a place of difference and diversity, rather than our commonalities? What would happen if we talked more about our aspirations, hopes and dreams instead of our problems or deficits? Participatory action researchers engage communities and organizations in positive generative dialogues to craft real solutions to real problems, and at the same time contribute to new social scientific knowledge, social well-being, and social justice. The Centre for Human Relations and Community Studies is a university hub for such interdisciplinary yand transdisciplinary issue-driven community-engaged scholarship.Sample list of participating faculty membersSites of related interestIn the course of the last thirty years, a number of scholars in cinema and media studies, as well as in the humanities and social sciences at large, have challenged the centrality given to “the visual” in our social and cultural lives by pointing out that sound plays an equally important role in our experience and understanding of the world. The choice of multidisciplinary approaches is required by the parameters of this domain of inquiry, as the object of study is never sound alone, but rather the relationships that hold or emerge between sound and the visual medium with which it comes into interaction.Sample list of participating faculty membersAt Concordia University, sustainability is more than just “the capacity to endure.” Sustainability is the study of dynamic social and ecological systems, focused on the intersection of social, economic, and environmental needs, and striving for the integration of science, policy and values. It is a solutions-oriented response to the most pressing global issues of the 21st century, including: climate change, biodiversity, environmental degradation, and community development. This field crosses many areas of study, requiring broad knowledge of biology, environmental management, business, organizational change, green technology, ecological design, public policy, community development, sociology and ethics among others.The SIP Sustainability and Environmental Studies Research Current cultivates a holistic, integrated perspective while allowing students to focus on the specialized disciplinary knowledge of their choosing. Concordia is home to experts across the faculties engaged in research that advances the field of sustainability, and the university has established a reputation on the ground as an active leader of campus sustainability management.Participating faculty membersIn a post-9/11 world, violence in our relationships, institutions, communities and collective memory has drawn new attention. Scholarship,accordingly, is attempting to find order in the chaos emerging from many global horrors. The Concordia researchers who participate in this current examine the impact of violence on individuals, communities, organizations, and societies. Research in this field promises to increase our understanding of: trauma, resilience and reconciliation at an individual and systemic level; individual and community capacity and social capital to process, memorialize, seek justice, and heal; the resources and supports that enhance the capacity of individuals and communities to create or restore a livable balance after violence; explore provocative public memory-work, community interventions, and arts-based methods of healing.Sample list of participating faculty membersThe study of human settlements has long been a preoccupation of researchers, policy-makers, and activists. Under what circumstances do people organize themselves in permanent locations? How does this organization typically take place? How does life in such settlements differ from life outside them? These very general questions have given rise to much more specific ones under current circumstances. Which of these living arrangements are most sustainable? What are the governance challenges emerging within them? or How are settlements interdependent – at regional, national, or international levels? The internal dynamics of urban places are increasingly the focus of researchers, grappling with economic and demographic changes, globalization and new technologies. The Urban/Rural Research Current provides a framework for examining all of these types of questions. By virtue of its focus this Current integrates work from a large number of disciplines and research areas, including sociology, anthropology, urban studies and planning, economics, political science, history, environment, and communication studies.Sample list of participating faculty membersSite of related interestWomen’s Studies at Concordia are interdisciplinary, drawing on faculty expertise in fields such as history, anthropology, sociology, community and public affairs, education, political science, and communications. The wide scope of this research reflects the broad impact of feminism and the increasing attention paid to questions of social justice, which are at the core of women’s studies. Women’s studies are underpinned by an understanding that social inequality is produced through interlocking systems of oppression and that the State, nationalism and imperialism are central in producing and sustaining asymmetrical power relations, such as those between men and women or those between people in the global north and those in the global south. Women’s studies, therefore, extends beyond the study of “the condition of women” to provide theoretical and methodological tools to better conceptualize a wide array of social issues as well as to fight for progressive change. The research strengths of Concordia’s faculty cover such topics as reproduction, sexuality, violence, health, work, poverty, militarism, media and cultural productions, politics, community organizing, development and globalization.Core faculty© Concordia UniversityAbout the Centre
Working Groups
Events, lectures and conferences
PhD in Humanities
NewsConcordia UniversityResearch currentsFaculty of Arts and Science
            
                Faculty of Arts and ScienceResearch currents
                
					
                    Critical curatorial studies
                
            
                
					
                    Development studies
                
            
                
					
                    Digital culture*
                
            
                
					
                    First people's studies
                
            
                
					
                    Food studies*
                
            
                
					
                    Gambling
                
            
                
					
                    Game studies and design
                
            
                
					
                    Globalization and Transnationalism*
                
            
                
					
                    Iranian studies*
                
            
                
					
                    Irish studies*
                
            
                
					
                    Law and society*
                
            
                
					
                    Oral History
                
            
                
					
                    Performance studies*
                
            
                
					
                    Sensory studies
                
            
                
					
                    Sexualities*
                
            
                
					
                    Social transformation
                
            
                
					
                    Sound studies
                
            
                
					
                    Sustainability and environmental studies
                
            
                
					
                    Trauma and resilience*
                
            
                
					
                    Urban/rural studies
                
            
                
					
                    Women's studiesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/studio-arts/research.htmlOur faculty of practicing artists go beyond the methodologies that artists embrace while creating work. Concordia’s supportive environment offers the spaces for reflection, innovation and examination – culminating in artworks that shape the cultural debate on the national and international stage.  Studio Arts fosters a new understanding of academic research that values the distinct methodologies artists embrace in making. Faculty members conduct a broad range of research-creation, making Concordia a place of exploring potential and furthering the long tradition of artists pushing the envelope and actively shaping cultural debate on the national and international stage.Hexagram-Concordia brings together artists/researchers from Concordia University’s faculties of Fine Arts, Arts and Science, and Engineering and Computer Science, fostering high-level work in a broad range of interdisciplinary domains relating to new media art, design and technology.The following Studio Arts artist-researchers have been recognized as Concordia University Research Chairs for their research contributions to Concordia University and the wider community.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityResearch & creationDepartment of Studio Arts
            
                Department of Studio ArtsHexagramResearch ChairsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/research.htmlAdvancing knowledge through excellence in intellectual pursuit is at the core of everything we do. Our organizational culture inspires quality research and scholarship across a wide spectrum, and values the importance of transferring knowledge to society in all its forms.The John Molson School of Business is seeking qualified applicants for one tenure-track position and one limited term appointment.
        Tenure-track position in Data Science
    
        Tenure-track appointment in Real Estate
    © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityResearchJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            JMSB research eventsGraduate research programsPosition announcements:Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/science-college/research.htmlConduct real research and gain scientific experience – as an undergradAn important component of the College's unique program is the requirement that students participate in work of an active research group in some branch of science, in every one of their undergraduate years. These research projects allow students to acquire first-hand scientific experience. The research may be carried out with scientists at Concordia or at some other university or research institution. In recent years, students have completed projects at universities like Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Rochester, Frankfurt, Freiberg, Paris, Berlin, Innsbruck, San Diego, Johns Hopkins, London University, England, Simon Fraser University, Barbados, Miami and others. The work of the student is supervised and graded either by a faculty member or by an academically qualified person at the outside institution. An attractive aspect of this program is that students are expected to participate in research projects outside their field. One can find a physics student doing experiments in neurophysiology, or a biology student participating in a computer project. This program is the core of our curriculum and is unique in Canada. Students are not just doing laboratory exercises. They are active and interested participants in the resolution of current scientific problems. This role both sharpens their understanding of science and gives them first-hand experience with what to expect from a scientific career. It has been our experience that the most interested and motivated students would rather do the research than view it from a distance.The college has its own library.© Concordia UniversityLoyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
See Loyola Campus mapConcordia UniversityResearchScience College
            
                Science CollegeConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/science-college/research.htmlConduct real research and gain scientific experience – as an undergradAn important component of the College's unique program is the requirement that students participate in work of an active research group in some branch of science, in every one of their undergraduate years. These research projects allow students to acquire first-hand scientific experience. The research may be carried out with scientists at Concordia or at some other university or research institution. In recent years, students have completed projects at universities like Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Rochester, Frankfurt, Freiberg, Paris, Berlin, Innsbruck, San Diego, Johns Hopkins, London University, England, Simon Fraser University, Barbados, Miami and others. The work of the student is supervised and graded either by a faculty member or by an academically qualified person at the outside institution. An attractive aspect of this program is that students are expected to participate in research projects outside their field. One can find a physics student doing experiments in neurophysiology, or a biology student participating in a computer project. This program is the core of our curriculum and is unique in Canada. Students are not just doing laboratory exercises. They are active and interested participants in the resolution of current scientific problems. This role both sharpens their understanding of science and gives them first-hand experience with what to expect from a scientific career. It has been our experience that the most interested and motivated students would rather do the research than view it from a distance.The college has its own library.© Concordia UniversityLoyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
See Loyola Campus mapConcordia UniversityResearchScience College
            
                Science CollegeConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/science-college/research.htmlConduct real research and gain scientific experience – as an undergradAn important component of the College's unique program is the requirement that students participate in work of an active research group in some branch of science, in every one of their undergraduate years. These research projects allow students to acquire first-hand scientific experience. The research may be carried out with scientists at Concordia or at some other university or research institution. In recent years, students have completed projects at universities like Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Rochester, Frankfurt, Freiberg, Paris, Berlin, Innsbruck, San Diego, Johns Hopkins, London University, England, Simon Fraser University, Barbados, Miami and others. The work of the student is supervised and graded either by a faculty member or by an academically qualified person at the outside institution. An attractive aspect of this program is that students are expected to participate in research projects outside their field. One can find a physics student doing experiments in neurophysiology, or a biology student participating in a computer project. This program is the core of our curriculum and is unique in Canada. Students are not just doing laboratory exercises. They are active and interested participants in the resolution of current scientific problems. This role both sharpens their understanding of science and gives them first-hand experience with what to expect from a scientific career. It has been our experience that the most interested and motivated students would rather do the research than view it from a distance.The college has its own library.© Concordia UniversityLoyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
See Loyola Campus mapConcordia UniversityResearchScience College
            
                Science CollegeConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/research.htmlWe are a research university on the move. Discover how we meet society's challenges and how our discoveries will define the next-generation.The industrial research chair will pursue cybersecurity enhancements for Quebec’s power systems.An exhibition at Concordia’s Leonard and Bina Ellen Art Gallery uses multiple mediums to address the impulse to move.A Concordia study reveals that occasional negative moods can positively impact student success.Concordia receives $2 million to advance smart-grid technologyNEW ART: Something ambiguous (mais précis à la fois)New research: feeling bad has academic benefits© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityResearch at ConcordiaSpotlights on research excellenceStudent and post-doctoral researchIndustry, innovation and incubationInstitutes and centresResearch newsResearch eventsConcordia receives $2 million to advance smart-grid technologyNEW ART: Something ambiguous (mais précis à la fois)New research: feeling bad has academic benefitsFind out how we make a direct impact in important fields that are changing the world
From undergraduates to post-doctoral fellows, our trainees drive our research
Working with industry to apply and advance knowledge
Enhancing transdisciplinary hubs of expertise
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424