http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/conted/resources/rules-regulations.htmlCourses offered by the Centre for Continuing Education are designated as “non-credit” and may be used to obtain a non-credit diploma or certificate at the Centre. Non-credit courses cannot be counted towards any of the degree, diploma or certificate programs offered by the Faculties of the University. Students are advised that all courses, other than those offered by the Language Institute require an acceptable level of competency in English, even though testing for such competency is not a formal prerequisite for most programs. Students must be at least 18 years of age to study at the Centre for Continuing Education.This glossary explains some of the academic and administrative terms you will come across in the program and course information outlined in this calendar.

Certificate Program (non-credit)
A certificate program consists of two (2) to four (4) courses totaling eighty hours (80) of study in a specific career-related area and results in the awarding of a Continuing Education certificate upon the successful completion of the courses. In some programs, the successful completion of three (3) eighty (80) hour certificates can be laddered into the awarding of a Diploma (240 hrs)

Compulsory Courses
These identified courses must be completed in order to receive a diploma or certificate in a specific program area.

Diploma Program (non-credit)
A Diploma program consists of a number of compulsory and elective courses totaling two hundred and forty hours (240) of study in a specific career-related area.

Elective Courses
Unlike compulsory courses, you can choose from a selected group of courses to complete your diploma or certificate.

Course Exemptions
Students may request to be exempted for certain courses in a program area. These courses do not have to be replaced.

Prerequisite Course
You must pass course x before taking course y. A prerequisite course may be waived if the student demonstrates specific academic/professional experience.

Seminars
These are courses delivered over a short period of time (1 or 2 days) and do not require students to write exams or assignments. These courses cannot be counted towards a diploma or certificateThe Centre has adopted a special pricing policy for all students sixty years of age and older. Students entitled to this discount will have their registration and late registration fees waived. In addition, students will receive a 15% reduction on their tuition fees. The Sixty-Plus discount is automatically calculated when students enroll on-line.
Concordia University Undergraduate and Graduate Alumni, based on the information maintained by the Office of the Registrar, are waived from paying registration and late registration fees when enrolling for courses at the Centre for Continuing Education. In addition, Concordia University Undergraduate and Graduate Alumni will receive a 10% reduction on their tuition fees. The Alumni discount is automatically calculated when students enroll on-line.
Unless otherwise specified, all courses and intensive programs are held at the Centre for Continuing Education, in La Tour du Faubourg, located at 1600 Ste-Catherine Street West (corner Guy Street) or the Continuing Education Annex, 1665 Ste-Catherine Street West. The exact classroom location appears on-line under the "My Student Centre" link in the MyConcordia.ca portal. Students are requested to consult the MyConcordia Portal prior to attending their first class to ensure that there has not been a change of classroom since their enrollment was processed.Textbooks and course packs, if required, are available for purchase at the Concordia University Bookstore, or online. Students are advised to await confirmation of course material by the instructor before making any purchases. The Sir George Williams Campus Concordia Bookstore is located at 1400 De Maisonneuve Blvd West; the telephone number is 848-2424, ext.3615.The Centre for Continuing Education specializes in developing tailor-made training designed to meet your corporate needs. Our program administrators will meet with you to discuss customized training to meet your specific requirements and organizational objectives. For further information regarding Custom Training, contact us by email at cce@concordia.ca.Fee: $11.50 Your student identification card confirms that you are a Concordia University student. Student ID cards can be obtained at the Birks Student Service Centre (Room LB-185, 1400 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West) 48 hours after your are enrolled in your courses. Make sure to bring a photo ID (e.g., driver’s license, medical insurance card, passport) with you. Should you need a replacement card, a $15 charge will apply.Fee: $15. Students registered in Continuing Education courses can elect to pay a fee each term to obtain library privileges. A library card will be issued upon presentation of a student registration contract and personal identification at the Library Circulation Desk. The library card gives access to both of the following libraries:Visit the Student Service desk (FB 117) for more information.Fee: $75. For Continuing Education students whose courses do not include computer access, they may apply for computer and Internet access for the term. Visit the Student Service desk (FB 117) for more information.Students can, at no charge, print their Unofficial Transcript of Grades on-line via the MyConcordia portal. Students who wish to have the Centre for Continuing Education mail a copy of their Unofficial Transcript to their residence may do so by completing a  Transcript Request Form and submit it to the Centre for Continuing Education. Requests will be processed within 5 working days.Fee $10. Official transcripts are only sent to educational institutions or official organizations. They are not issued to students. To request that an Official Transcript be sent, students must complete a Transcript Request Form and submit it to the Centre for Continuing Education. Requests will be processed within 5 working days.Fee $15. 
Requests for letters of attestation must be made in writing to the Centre for Continuing Education. Please note that part-time students or students not currently registered in an intensive program of study will be charged a $15 fee for this service. Requests will be processed within 5 working days.Students registered in Continuing Education Intensive Programs have access to the University’s Counselling and Development Services. The Counselling and Development Services office is located at 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W., Room H- 440. Telephone: 848-2424, ext.3545. You can visit them on the web.Students registered in Continuing Education Intensive Programs have access to the University’s Counselling and Development Services. The Counselling and Development Services office is located at 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W., Room H- 440. Telephone: 848-2424, ext.3545. You can visit them on the web.Students who require assistance are invited to present themselves at the Student Service desk (FB 117) where a staff member will be more than happy to help them. A staff member will assess their needs and direct them to the appropriate service or department, either within the Centre for Continuing Education or in Concordia University. For incidents involving a violation of Concordia University Code of Rights and Responsibilities, students are referred to the Office of Rights and Responsibilities. Students may also consult the Ombuds Office for information about existing policies, rules and procedures and advice as to the appropriate channel of redress for any concern or complaint they may have.In addition, the Centre for Continuing Education's Language Instutute is an accredited member of Lanaguages Canada and, as such, is subject to its Code of Ethics and its Dispute Resolution Policy.Students may drop a course or swap (drop/enroll) a course on-line through the MyConcordia Portal or by writing to the Centre for Continuing Education. Non-attendance of classes does not constitute a course drop and is not subject to a refund of tuition fees. Students may not drop a course after 70% of the course has elapsed. All Application fees, registration fees, late registration fees and required tuition deposits are non-refundable and not transferable. Tuition refunds will be granted according to the following policies:Students who drop a course or swap (drop/enroll) a course prior to the date of the first scheduled class will receive a full tuition refund, less a $25 tuition penalty per course. The application fee, registration fee and late registration fee are non-refundable.Students who drop a course or swap a course will be refunded 50% of the course tuition providing not more than 10% of the course hours have elapsed.Students who drop a course or swap a course after the above noted deadlines are not eligible for a refund. Students who withdraw from an intensive program prior to the date of the first scheduled class will receive a full tuition refund, less the required minimum tuition deposit charged for that program. Students who drop a course or swap (drop/enroll) a course within the intensive program prior to the date of the first scheduled class for the course will receive a full tuition refund for the course less the portion of the required minimum tuition deposit associated with the course.Students who withdraw from an intensive program within the first week of scheduled classes will receive a refund of 50% of the total tuition for the program. Students who drop a course or swap (drop/enroll) a course within the intensive program will be refunded 50% of the course tuition providing not more than 10% of the course hours have elapsed.Students who withdraw from an intensive program, drop a course or swap a course within an intensive program after the above noted deadlines are not eligible for a refund. Participants must drop the seminar/workshop at least two (2) days prior to the date the seminar/workshop begins in order to receive a full tuition refund, less a $25 tuition penalty per seminar/workshop. The application fee, registration fee and late registration fee are non-refundable. Participants who drop the seminar/workshop on the date the seminar begins or once the seminar has commenced are not eligible for a refund.Requests for course exemptions, if permitted, must be made in writing to the Centre for Continuing Education. A maximum of 60 course hours per diploma program or 20 course hours per certificate program can be exempted without having to replace the exempted course(s) with another course from the program. All course exemptions that are granted will appear on the student transcript. To request a course exemption, students must complete a Course Exemption Form and submit it to the Centre for Continuing Education. Students who do not successfully pass the exemption exam must take the course.Language institute Courses: Course exemptions cannot be requested.Computer institute courses: Fee $75. Students wishing to be exempted from a Computer Institute course must successfully complete an exam to prove their mastery of the course content.Other courses: Students must submit a transcript of grades and a course description as proof that a course has been successfully completed at another educational institution in order to be granted an exemption. Students requesting to be exempted from a course based on non-academic experience must successfully complete an exam to prove their mastery of the course content. A $75 fee applies for the exam.Fee: $25 Requests for prerequisite course waivers must be made in writing to the Centre. Students must submit a Course Waiver Form with appropriate proof of experience along with a Registration Contract in order to be considered for a course waiver. A $25 Registration Fee applies each term a course waiver is requested. All course waivers are granted at the student’s risk and will not appear on the student transcript. In order to be granted a certificate or diploma, any compulsory or elective course that has been waived must be replaced by another course pre-approved by the Centre. Note: Course waivers cannot be requested for Language Institute courses.The Centre for Continuing Education reserves the right to cancel any course for which it is deemed there is insufficient registration. In this case, all fees paid will be refunded in full.The passing grade in all courses is 50%, with the exception of the following:Fee: $35. Students who find themselves in one of the two following situations may be entitled to write a supplemental examination:All requests to write a supplemental examination must be made in writing to the Centre for Continuing Education. The supplemental examination, once approved by the Centre, must be written within one (1) week following the original midterm exam date or within four (4) weeks following the original final examination date. Failure to comply with these regulations will result in a DNW (Did Not Write) notation on the student’s transcript.Fee: $75. The Centre for Continuing Education recognizes the right of students to request the re-evaluation of their final grade. Such requests must meet the criteria for re-evaluation and should be made in writing to the Centre for Continuing Education, within the 30 days following the end of the course. Students will be informed of the criteria, delays and of the procedures to be followed.Any form of cheating, plagiarism, personation or falsification of a document, as well as any other form of dishonest behavior related to the obtention of academic gain or the avoidance of evaluative exercises committed by a student is an academic offense. Academic offenses will not be tolerated. If an instructor suspects that a student has committed an academic offense, the instructor will inform the appropriate departmental administrator of the suspicion and provide supporting information. The administrator will then meet the student to discuss the matter and make a decision as to the charge and any sanction. The outcome of this process could result in an automatic failure in a course. Academic Offenses include the following:The Centre for Continuing Education reserves the right to withdraw a student from any program or course at any time should it be determined that the student’s conduct has the effect or purpose of interfering with others’ work or academic performance or of creating an intimidating or hostile environment for work or study. In addition, the Centre for Continuing Education may refuse admission to a student on the same grounds.A Certificate of Proficiency is automatically awarded upon successful completion of the highest level within the second language program.A Program Diploma is automatically awarded upon successful completion of the program requirements for students registered in an intensive program.Fee $25 (Certificate), $50 (Diploma). To receive a Program Diploma or Certificate, part-time professional career students must submit a Diploma or Certificate Application Form. It is suggested that students submit this form while registered in their final course of the program.Fee $25 (Certificate), $50 (Diploma). Students may request a duplicate diploma or certificate at any time. It should be noted that the notation “Duplicate” will appear in the bottom left corner of the document.* To request a diploma, certificate or a duplicate copy, students must complete and submit one of the following forms:© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityRules & regulationsContinuing Education
            
                Continuing EducationGlossary of terms
                
            
                
					
                    Dates that we are closed
                
            
                
					
                    Sixty-plus discount
                
            
                
					
                    Alumni discount
                
            
                
					
                    Classroom location
                
            
                
					
                    Textbooks/Course Packs Availability
                
            
                
					
                    Custom training
                
            
                
					
                    Student ID cards
                
            
                
					
                    University library access
                
            
                
					
                    Computer Internet access
                
            
                
					
                    Transcript of Grades
                
            
                
					
                    Letter of Attestation
                
            
                
					
                    Resources & Services
                
            
                
					
                    Counselling and Psychological Services
                
            
                
					
                    Student Assistance and Problem Resolution
                
            
                
					
                    Withdrawals and Tuition Refund Policy
                
            
                
					
                    Course Exemptions
                
            
                
					
                    Prerequisite Course Waivers
                
            
                
					
                    Cancellation of Courses and Programs
                
            
                
					
                    Grading and Examination Rules
                
            
                
					
                    Supplemental Examinations (Does not apply to language programs)
                
            
                
					
                    Final Grade Re-Evaluations
                
            
                
					
                    Academic offenses
                
            
                
					
                    Student Expulsion
                
            
                
					
                    Program Diplomas, Certificates & Duplicates*Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Unofficial TranscriptOfficial TranscriptPart-time CoursesIntensive ProgramsSeminars/WorkshopsLanguage Institute ProgramsIntensive Professional Career ProgramsPart-time Professional Career ProgramsDuplicate Diplomas or Certificates (All Programs)