http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/alumni-friends/giving-to-concordia/our-campaigns/community-campaign/fundone/past-projects/sae-competition-fund.htmlTo raise $7,500 to help us build the best vehicles yet for the 2015 SAE International competitions.Concordia SAE is a student-run chapter of SAE International (formerly the Society of Automotive Engineers). We design, manufacture and test vehicles to race in international competitions, which draw more than 4,500 students from 500 universities every spring. It’s the perfect opportunity to apply engineering theory to the real world!Plans, designs, deadlines — everything is well underway at the Concordia SAE shop as we look forward to 2015. We’re very excited about this coming year, which promises to be the best yet.We are asking for your help to fund the development of our 2015 vehicles. Please support over 100 passionate and dedicated students in their endeavour to excel within the field of engineering.With four strong Concordia SAE teams, we’re working hard to gain the most experience possible designing and competing prototype vehicles, learning practical and applicable engineering skills and building teamwork and leadership skills.The Formula SAE competition is very similar to International Formula 1. While strict chassis rules ensure driver safety, engine rules are kept to a bare minimum to give students design. Students must develop a prototype race car and evaluate its production potential.Teams design, manufacture, test and market the car — keeping costs at a minimum. This promotes excellence in engineering as it encompasses all aspects of the trade and allows the students to apply textbook theory to real work experiences. The competition itself comprises five dynamic events: Acceleration, Skid Pad, Autocross, Efficiency and Endurance, as well as a design presentation during which the team explains why their design is superior.&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;nbsp; The SAE Aero Design competition focuses on aeronautic design and implementation. The aircraft aims to lift the maximum weight within specified configuration limitations. Students execute trade studies and make compromises to arrive at a design solution that optimally meets the mission requirements.They earn points for predicted accuracy of the aircraft’s lift, which demonstrates a team’s attention to detail in analysis. Much of a team’s score is devoted to the required design report and oral presentation. The team must also demonstrate, showing the radio-controlled aircraft successfully lift and fly with a substantial payload. The SAE Supermileage competition challenges students to design and develop a fuel-efficient single-person vehicle. Teams must tune the single-cylinder, 148 CC engines provided to maximize power output and minimize fuel consumption. They must also reduce its weight, requiring smart design and precise material selection.The competition consists of timed laps around a banked, oval track, as well as design presentations during which the team’s design is judged by leading engineers. This design series promotes green technologies and raises public awareness on the importance of sustainability. The SAE Mini Baja series is one of SAE International's most extreme competitions. It challenges students to design an off-road racing vehicle capable of enduring severe punishment of rough terrains. While the engine is provided by SAE International, the team must design the frame, suspension and driveline systems to outperform competitors.Vehicles are tested to near destruction during six events: Acceleration, Suspension and Tractions, Manuverability, Hill Climb, Rock Crawl and a four-hour endurance race. Participants must also present their vehicles to engineers from leading companies who evaluate each design to the finest detail. The series promotes off-road vehicle engineering among young engineers by giving them the unique opportunity to apply their knowledge to extreme cases.Questions? Email fundone@concordia.ca.© Concordia UniversityAdvancement & Alumni Relations, 514-848-2424, ext. 4856Concordia UniversitySAE Competition FundAlumni & friends
            
                Alumni & friends
            Our goalWho we areOur projectsContactConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Formula:Aero Design:Supermileage:Baja: