http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/alumni-friends/giving-to-concordia/our-campaigns/community-campaign/fundone/past-projects/sae-competition-fund-2015-16.htmlTo raise $12,500 to help our teams set new records and place in the top five for each category.Concordia SAE is a student-run chapter of SAE International. We design, manufacture and test vehicles to race in international competitions that draw more than 4,500 students from 500 universities every spring. It’s the perfect opportunity to apply engineering theory to the real world!We're very excited about the year ahead! Plans, improved designs, deadlines — everything is well underway at the Concordia SAE shop as we look forward to the 2016 season.Last year saw Concordia SAE set new records across the board for all teams, with second- and third-place finishes for our Aero Advanced and Regular class teams respectively. Our Formula and Supermileage teams each came home with an eighth-place finish, while our Baja team finished mid pack after a gruelling four-hour endurance race.Please help us fund our 2016 vehicles and reach our goal of a first-place finish! You'll be supporting over 100 passionate dedicated students dedicated to excellence in engineering.With four strong Concordia SAE teams, we’re working hard to gain the most experience possible designing and competing prototype vehicles, learning practical and applicable engineering skills and building teamwork and leadership skills.Each competition evaluates the performance of the vehicle and also requires the team to present and explain their design to leading engineers.Students must develop a prototype race car and evaluate its production potential. While strict chassis rules ensure driver safety, engine rules are kept to a bare minimum to give students design flexibility.Encompassing all aspects of the trade, teams design, manufacture, test and market the car, keeping costs at a minimum. The competition itself comprises five dynamic events: acceleration, skid pad, autocross, efficiency and endurance.These radio-controlled aircraft aim to lift the maximum weight within specified configuration limitations. Students execute trade studies and make compromises to arrive at a design solution that optimally meets mission requirements.Teams must demonstrate the successful lift of the aircraft — and fly with a substantial payload. They earn points for predicted accuracy of the aircraft’s lift, which shows their attention to detail in analysis.Promotomg green technologies and raising awareness on the importance of sustainability, students must design and develop a fuel-efficient, single-person vehicle to complete timed laps around a banked, oval track.Teams must tune single-cylinder, 148 CC engines provided to maximize power output and minimize fuel consumption. Reducing its weight requires smart design and precise material selection.One of SAE International's most extreme competitions, it challenges students to design an off-road racing vehicle capable of enduring severe punishment on rough terrains.While the engine is provided by SAE International, the team must design the frame, suspension and driveline systems to outperform competitors. Vehicles are tested to near destruction during six events: acceleration, suspension and tractions, manoeuverability, hill climb, rock crawl and a four-hour endurance race.Questions? Email fundone@concordia.ca.© Concordia UniversityAdvancement & Alumni Relations, 514-848-2424, ext. 4856Concordia UniversitySAE Competition Fund 2015-16Alumni & friends
            
                Alumni & friends
            Our goalWho we areOur projectsCompetition scheduleContactConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Formula:Aero Design:Supermileage:Baja: