http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/alumni-friends/giving-to-concordia/fundone/sae-competition-team-2016-17.htmlTo raise $10,000 to help fund construction for each team's vehicle and enable us to participate in international competitions. Help us reach our goal of a first-place finish in each category!The Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) is a global association of engineers and experts in the aeropspace, automotive and commercial-vehicle industries. Concordia SAE is a student-run chapter of SAE International. We design, manufacture and test vehicles to race in international competitions that draw more than 4,500 students from 500 universities worldwide every year. It’s the perfect opportunity to apply engineering theory to the real world!We're very excited about the year ahead! Plans, improved designs, deadlines — everything is well underway at the Concordia SAE shop as we look forward to the 2017 season.Last year, all four Concordia SAE teams set new records across the board: Formula finished 34th, the highest they have ever finished at SAE Michigan, Supermileage finished 8th overall in the gasoline prototype class, Baja placed 16th in design and finished 48th at both of their competitions, and Aero Design finished 47th overall in the Design Build Fly competition, which it attended for the first time.Help us fund our 2017 vehicles and reach our goal of a first-place finish! You will be supporting over 100 passionate students dedicated to excellence in engineering and to promoting Concordia’s name.Each competition evaluates the performance of the vehicle and also requires the team to present and explain their design to industry-leading engineers.To prepare, our five strong Concordia SAE teams are working hard to gain experience designing and competing prototype vehicles, learning applicable engineering skills and building teamwork and leadership aptitudes. The competition challenges teams to design and build radio-controlled aircrafts: a passenger plane that carries both high-density cargo and dozens of low-density tennis balls, and a tightly packed heavy lift plane. Power is regulated and teams need to develop strong yet lightweight and efficient airplanes.One of SAE International's most extreme competitions, it challenges students to design an off-road racing vehicle capable of enduring severe punishment on rough terrains.While the engine is provided by SAE International, the team must design the frame, suspension and driveline systems to outperform competitors. Vehicles are tested to near destruction during six events: acceleration, suspension and tractions, maneuverability, hill climb, rock crawl and a four-hour endurance race.The competition is very similar to the International Formula 1 competitions. It is comprised of 5 dynamic events: Acceleration, Skid Pad, Auto-cross, Efficiency, and Endurance, as well as a design presentation during which the team explains their design process and decisions. Encompassing all aspects of the trade, teams design, manufacture, test and market the car, keeping costs at a minimum.The newest of the Concordia SAE teams made its debut in May 2016. It will be using an old Formula chassis, and thus focusing on the electronic systems.The competition invites students to design and construct a single-seat race car that is put through its paces in a similar way to the Combustion Formula, with the additional challenge of a complex electrical system. The team is judged on design and marketability as well as dynamic events.Promoting green technologies and raising awareness on the importance of sustainability, students must design and develop a fuel-efficient, single-person vehicle to complete timed laps around a banked, oval track.Teams must tune single-cylinder, 148 CC engines provided to maximize power output and minimize fuel consumption. Reducing its weight requires smart design and precise material selection.Questions? Email fundone@concordia.ca.© Concordia UniversityAdvancement & Alumni Relations, 514-848-2424, ext. 4856Concordia UniversitySAE Competition Team 2016-17Alumni & friends
            
                Alumni & friends
            Our goalWho we areOur projectsCompetition scheduleContactConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Aero DesignBajaFormula CombustionFormula ElectricSupermileage