http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/encs/computer-science/2016/11/04/Seminar-by-Dr-Tien-N-Nguyen.htmlSpeaker: Dr. Tien N. Nguyen
                 University of Texas at Dallas
Title: Large-scale Code Mining and Analysis for Code Migration and Recommendation
Date: Friday, Nov 4th, 2016
 
 Time: 11 a.m
 
 Place: EV3.309
We live in the world with data science that helps discover knowledge and insights from data in various forms to guide our daily activities. For software, ultra-large-scale software repositories contain enormous wealth of knowledge on software development. In this talk, I will present our research that develops advanced program analysis and large-scale code mining methods to support software developers in the development process. I will present Boa, a virtual collaborative infrastructure for research that analyzes software and its evolution at a large scale. Then, I will present integrated approaches that explore the infrastructure to leverage large-scale code mining and program analysis in supporting important software engineering tasks including software specification inference, code migration, and code recommendation.Dr. Tien N. Nguyen is currently an Associate Professor in the School of Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Texas at Dallas. He has spent 11 years in the faculty of Electrical and Computer Engineering Department at Iowa State University after receiving his Ph.D. degree from University of Wisconsin in 2005. His research interests include program analysis, software evolution, and large-scale mining software repositories. He has been awarded four ACM SIGSOFT Distinguished Paper Awards, one Best Paper Award, and one best ICSE Formal Research Demonstration Award at the top-tier software engineering conferences including ICSE, FSE, and ASE. His fourth ACM SIGSOFT Distinguished Paper Ward will be awarded at FSE 2016 in November. His research has been supported by 14 external grants including 8 NSF grants from US National Science Foundation (PI on 5 of them), and several grants from industry with a total of $6.5M. He will be serving as the Program Co-Chair of the 32nd ACM/IEEE International Conference on Automated Software Engineering (ASE 2017) and the Program Chair of the Formal Research Demo Track at the 40th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE 2018). He has been serving on Program Committees and Program Boards of top-tier software engineering conferences including ICSE, FSE, ASE, OOPSLA, and ECOOP.  Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversitySeminar by Dr. Tien N. Nguyen (University of Texas at Dallas)Concordia Center for Composites (CONCOM)
            
                Concordia Center for Composites (CONCOM)
            ABSTRACTBIOFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424