http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/hospitality/space-reservation.htmlHow you reserve your space and plan your event depends on the venue you need and whether you are a student, Concordia staff or faculty or a member of the public.
 To see who manages the space you'd like to request, refer to the DSA list.You can always contact Hospitality Concordia for venue suggestions if you don’t know where to start, or check out some of our featured venues for inspiration.Designated Space Administrators (DSAs) manage and book all venues across the campus.  Depending on the venue, you will make your reservation through Hospitality Concordia, or through another individual who manages that venue. Select from below for space request instructions:Log into MyConcordia and select MyEvents Reservations.If the venue is managed by another DSA, please contact that individual directly. Refer to the DSA list to see who manages the venue that interests you.If the venue is managed by another DSA, please contact that individual directly. Refer to the DSA list to see who manages the venue that interests you.What you need to know about your requestFaculty, Staff and Students of the University with a valid University ID card, all academic and administrative units and all recognized student groups who require access to and use of University space to conduct their University-related activities provided the event meets the Internal User Criteria below:Internal users criteria- The activity is for University-related purposes;
- The activity is for regular University operations of the department;
- The activity is for regular Recognized Student group Campus Life activities
- The organizer of the events are Internal Users and the activity is not co-hosted with an external organization, unless for Academic and Research related conferences, and career recruitment activities organized by a recognized department or student group.Preferred users
Internal Users who do not fall within the Internal User Criteria above and/or wish to host non-University related activities on campus (personal events), and Alumni, retired university-employees, non-profit organizations, external organizations hosting an event in collaboration with Internal Users.External users
External Users (persons, groups or organizations) who are not members of the University and who wish to use University Space.Event-Related charges
The User is responsible for all event-related charges such as, but not limited to,cancellation fees, room and set-up charges, internal and external supplier costs, equipment rentals,AV equipment and Services, etc.Coordination & Onsite Management Fee
Onsite coordination fee may apply to certain venues, see Venue Rates.
- Coordination and management fee for national and international conferences will be evaluated on an individual basis. A quote will be provided based on a consultation with Hospitality Concordia.
- Onsite coordination fee will apply when a representative of Hospitality Concordia is needed to remain onsite during event outside regular (9-5) business hours: Fee: $50/three hour minimum, plus $15/hour for each additional hour.
- Coordination/management fee will apply to spaces other than those managed by Hospitality Concordia during regular and outside business hours.Cancellation Fees
A cancellation fee will be applied if event or equipment rental is cancelled less than ten (10) business days prior to the event date. Internals: $ 25/venue
    Preferred: $ 50/venue
    Externals: As per Space Agreement terms and conditions
A User will also be responsible for assuming any event-related charges incurred by the University up to the time of cancellation. Once your space has been booked, we have all the information on how to enhance to your event with additional service options.  Visit our Event Planning pages to take care of all the details.
  
 Please note that the LB building (Library) is currently undergoing extensive renovations.  As a result of scaffolding, the LB Atrium will be unavailable for events from August 2015 until Winter 2017.  If you need advice on alternate venues for your events, please don’t hesitate to call us at ext. 4999 or 5981.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversitySpace reservationHospitality Concordia
            
                Hospitality Concordia
            LB Atrium RenovationsContact usStep 1:  Find out who manages the space that interests you
                
            
                
					
                    What is a Designated Space Administrator (DSA)?
                
            
                
					
                    Step 2: Follow these instructions to request your space
                
            
                
					
                    Are you part of the Concordia community?
                
            
                
					
                    Are you a member of the general public?
                
            
                
					
                    Step 3:  Read these important notes about reserving space
                
            
                
					
                    Step 4: View user criteria and venue rates
                
            For All users in addition to Rental Rates:Step 1:  Find out who manages the space that interests you
                Step 2: Follow these instructions to request your space
                Step 3:  Read these important notes about reserving space
                Step 4: View user criteria and venue rates
                Internal usersNext steps...Over 200 venues on campus, from classrooms, small conference rooms, to banquet halls, large theatres and amphitheatres 
 Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Venues managed by Hospitality:Venues managed by other DSA'S: