http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/alumni-friends/giving-to-concordia/fundone/space-concordia.htmlTo support Concordia students participating in space engineering competitions in Canada and beyond.Space Concordia is an award-winning, multidisciplinary student society of over 200 students from varying disciplines working in four subdivisions: spacecraft, ground station, rocketry and robotics. Students bring varied knowledge — in engineering, biology, chemistry, physics, literature and finance — to support the design, construction, promotion and competition.We aspire to be more than just your average student society. We aim for excellence in innovation and technology, not only through competition, but also through educational outreach and multidisciplinary research and development with our various side projects. Our long-term goal is to become Concordia's own space agency.This year, we need your support to maintain our standing as one of Canada’s most competitive teams in Rocketry and Spacecraft, and to expand our program into Robotics and Ground Station. Learn more about our programs at spaceconcordia.ca.The purpose of the satellite team is to compete in the Canadian Satellite Design Challenge (CSDC), which has become an international competition for university teams to design and build a small science research satellite known as a "cubesat" or "nanosatellite." Last year we built the most advanced satellite and won first place — our second first place win in three years — demonstrating Concordia students' dedication and expertise.Over the course of this year’s competition, we must compete in four primary stages: develop a project management plan, submit our design for a preliminary design review, pass a critical design review, and submit to environmental testing. Our success in the competition depends on our performance in each of these stages.This year the rocketry division aims to compete in the Intercollegiate Rocket Engineering Competition (IREC) in Utah. The basic requirements are that the rocket reach 10,000 feet above ground level and carry a payload of 10 lbs. Teams are also judged on design, manufacturing and innovation.Last year our team won second place, and the year before, placed second in the payload category. We’re looking forward to building on our experience and aiming for first place in this growing competiiton.Our robotics division is new, and starting this cutting-edge division takes a lot of work and resources. The team will compete for the first time in 2017 at the University Rover Challenge. We will design and build a robot similar to the Mars rover, which must navigate a sequence of obstacles and be capable of assisting an astronaut. Our objective is to become the first group in Quebec to actually launch a satellite in orbit. Once the satellite is launched, it is imperative that we continue communicating with it. The ground station team's job is to design and build a telecommunication terminal able to transmit and receive information from the satellite hundreds of kilometres away.Questions? Email fundone@concordia.ca.© Concordia UniversityAdvancement & Alumni Relations, 514-848-2424, ext. 4856Concordia UniversitySpace ConcordiaAlumni & friends
            
                Alumni & friends
            Our goalWho we areOur divisionsContactConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Spacecraft (Satellite)RocketryRoboticsGround station:http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/alumni-friends/giving-to-concordia/fundone/space-concordia.htmlTo support Concordia students participating in space engineering competitions in Canada and beyond.Space Concordia is an award-winning, multidisciplinary student society of over 200 students from varying disciplines working in four subdivisions: spacecraft, ground station, rocketry and robotics. Students bring varied knowledge — in engineering, biology, chemistry, physics, literature and finance — to support the design, construction, promotion and competition.We aspire to be more than just your average student society. We aim for excellence in innovation and technology, not only through competition, but also through educational outreach and multidisciplinary research and development with our various side projects. Our long-term goal is to become Concordia's own space agency.This year, we need your support to maintain our standing as one of Canada’s most competitive teams in Rocketry and Spacecraft, and to expand our program into Robotics and Ground Station. Learn more about our programs at spaceconcordia.ca.The purpose of the satellite team is to compete in the Canadian Satellite Design Challenge (CSDC), which has become an international competition for university teams to design and build a small science research satellite known as a "cubesat" or "nanosatellite." Last year we built the most advanced satellite and won first place — our second first place win in three years — demonstrating Concordia students' dedication and expertise.Over the course of this year’s competition, we must compete in four primary stages: develop a project management plan, submit our design for a preliminary design review, pass a critical design review, and submit to environmental testing. Our success in the competition depends on our performance in each of these stages.This year the rocketry division aims to compete in the Intercollegiate Rocket Engineering Competition (IREC) in Utah. The basic requirements are that the rocket reach 10,000 feet above ground level and carry a payload of 10 lbs. Teams are also judged on design, manufacturing and innovation.Last year our team won second place, and the year before, placed second in the payload category. We’re looking forward to building on our experience and aiming for first place in this growing competiiton.Our robotics division is new, and starting this cutting-edge division takes a lot of work and resources. The team will compete for the first time in 2017 at the University Rover Challenge. We will design and build a robot similar to the Mars rover, which must navigate a sequence of obstacles and be capable of assisting an astronaut. Our objective is to become the first group in Quebec to actually launch a satellite in orbit. Once the satellite is launched, it is imperative that we continue communicating with it. The ground station team's job is to design and build a telecommunication terminal able to transmit and receive information from the satellite hundreds of kilometres away.Questions? Email fundone@concordia.ca.© Concordia UniversityAdvancement & Alumni Relations, 514-848-2424, ext. 4856Concordia UniversitySpace ConcordiaAlumni & friends
            
                Alumni & friends
            Our goalWho we areOur divisionsContactConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Spacecraft (Satellite)RocketryRoboticsGround station: