http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/alumni-friends/giving-to-concordia/fundone/past-projects/stingers-baseball-2015.htmlOur goalTo advance Concordia's Men's Stingers Baseball program and ensure continued wins for our student athletes.  Our projectWith your support, we aim to:Who we areThe Concordia Stingers baseball team competes in the Canadian Collegiate Baseball Association.Over the last two decades, we have evolved from an expansion team to one that earned a berth in the National Championships six times in the last eight years. Our recruiting program has grown to include most of Canada and several states in the U.S.Our highly competitive team — developed through improved recruitment practices and expanded off-season training — counts among its achievements:  Head coach Howie "Skip" Schwartz has led the Stingers baseball team since its 1995 inception. His career coaching record stands at 169 wins/141 losses for a .545 winning percentage. A clinical psychologist for over 30 years, he has worked with elite amateur and professional athletes in baseball and other competitive sports since 1990.Our team boasts the largest coaching staff in Canada, with five assistant coaches — all former Stingers. Their dedication to the baseball program has led us to become one of the most successful and respected programs in Canada. They are:Our coaching staff are committed to increasing the range of our recruiting program and believe a financial awards program will be a major incentive to attract bright student athletes.Through the Jays Care Foundation's Rookie League program, the Stingers are using the game of baseball as a way of teaching children in the community the importance of teamwork, cooperation and self-esteem."We would like to thank you for allowing the Stingers Program to be a Baseball Ambassador for Jays Care Foundation since 2012. Our Rookie League programs in the Dawson and LaSalle Boys and Girls Clubs have generously benefitted from the Stingers providing training, support and mentoring to both the staff and participants in learning the great game of baseball. We thank you for the countless hours you have no doubt given back to helping improve the lives of children and to make a resounding positive impact in the community."  - Todd Erskine, Coordinator of the Rookie League and Baseball Programs, Jays Care Foundation. Read the full thank-you letter Help us provide Stingers athletes with lifelong memories of their experience representing Concordia!Questions about FundOne?Email fundone@concordia.ca © Concordia UniversityAdvancement & Alumni Relations, 514-848-2424, ext. 4856Concordia UniversityMen's Stingers BaseballAlumni & friends
            
                Alumni & friendsWe're proud of our players' individual accomplishments:Our coaches and their vision:Commitment to Community DevelopmentConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424