http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/international/visiting-exchange/study-exchange.htmlTo apply to Concordia as an exchange student, you must meet the following minimum requirements:Please be advised that Concordia University is required to keep its exchanges balanced on an institutional basis. Before applying to Concordia for exchange, you should contact your home institution’s exchange office.Calendar: The Academic Year at Concordia starts in September and ends in April. It is divided into two semesters: Fall Semester (September through December) and Winter Semester (January through April). Most courses last only one semester, but some last for the full Academic Year. Most exchange students come to Concordia for one semester, but can apply to come for one full Academic Year. If you are admitted for only one semester, you cannot register for courses that last the entire Academic Year. Please visit the following websites for a list of important dates, including semester start and end dates and holidays.Undergraduate course load: You must take at least 12 credits each semester, which normally equals 4 courses worth 3 credits each. Most students take around 15 credits, or 5 courses. Taking more than 15 credits is not advisable and may not be possible. When you apply, you should list at least 6 courses you would like to take while here. You should not include graduate courses on your list as you will not be able to register for them.Graduate student course load: You must take at least 8 graduate credits while here. Most students take 9 credits or 3 courses. When you apply, you should list at least 4 courses you would like to take. You should not list undergraduate courses as they do not count towards the minimum 8 graduate credits required for registration.Courses and descriptions: Please visit the appropriate website for you.Course schedule: You can view the latest Concordia course schedule online. If you are trying to select courses for a future semester not yet appearing, then please assume that most of the courses listed on the current schedule will be offered during the same semester(s) for future academic years. The schedule is normally updated in March for the following academic year.Restricted Courses: Not all of Concordia’s courses are open to exchange students. When selecting which courses you would like to take at Concordia, please keep the following lists of restrictions in mind.In general, course registration at Concordia takes place online. You will receive registration instructions in your admission letter. Some students might be required to contact an advisor to register for al or certain courses. You are strongly advised to register for courses as soon as you are told that you can do so. If you wait to register for courses later or - even worse - until after you arrive at Concordia, be advised that most courses will be full and closed. It is your responsibility to read all information as soon as you receive and to act promptly on it.For more information and instructions on how to register, please visit the Registrar’s website for Registration Instructions.I was admitted into the exchange program at Concordia but I was not granted permission to take certain courses. What do I do?You are not guaranteed permission to register for your courses at Concordia as both classroom capacity and pre-requisite requirements can be an limit your access to certain courses. If you have been admitted to Concordia, then you must understand that flexibility in your course selection is a MUST. We would recommend alternative courses available to you.How do I register for my courses?Once you receive your official letter of permission form Concordia University, you must set up your MyConcordia portal and contact the academic advisor for each department in which you wish to take courses in order to receive permission to take those courses. You do NOT register for courses through the course’s Moodle site.  Can  register for courses that I did not list on my application?In general, you should register for courses in the departments that you originally listed on your application. If you wish to register for courses that are in departments that you id d not originally list on your application, it is best to stick to lower level (200 level) courses.  You MUST contact the department advisor for all courses that you wish to register for.Do I have to apply for the Permanent Code if I am only coming as an exchange student?Yes, all students studying in Quebec, regardless of the amount of time that they will be studying in Quebec, must apply for a permanent code. See more information about applying for your Permanent Code.Do I have to pay Concordia University’s Health Insurance fee or can I have it waived if I am covered by my home university or parent?Immigration Quebec regulations require that all international students be covered by a health insurance plan that meets government standards, while studying in Quebec. Personal health insurance plans are not accepted.How much do I pay for health Insurance and when do I pay?Health insurance fees are charged automatically when students register for courses. For the most current health insurance rates and other useful information, please visit the International Students Office website.Do I have to pay the full amount of health insurance for the year if I will be on exchange for only one semester?No, once you present yourself to the International Students’ Office (ISO) for orientation, the ISO will adjust your health insurance fee for the single semester ($405 CDN).Can I apply for student residence?Yes, there is a $100 non-refundable application fee. Residence are limited and therefore there are no guarantees that you will be assigned a room. See more information on Concordia University’s student residence and application process. Do I have to arrive at Concordia early for orientation?  On what date is orientation held?All exchange students must attend an International Student Orientation held by Concordia’s International Students Office.  Times and dates of the sessions vary, as some are held before the start of classes and others are held after classes begin.  Please see the current International Student Orientation schedule. Please note that though it is mandatory to attend an International Student Orientation session, you can choose to attend any session that best suits you, whether it be before or after courses begin.  Therefore you are not required to arrive at Concordia early, although giving yourself a couple of days to settle in before the semester starts is always advisable.   For more information regarding International Student Orientation sessions, please contact the International Students Office: iso@concordia.ca. Funding options are available from various sources. Please visit our funding opportunities page to see an overview of funding options.Before you leaveIf you are an exchange student coming to Concordia, we encourage you to read the preparation guides provided by Concordia's International Students Office. See what to do before you leave.Immigration & health insuranceBefore applying to Concordia, you should be aware of:The International Students Office also publishes a Pre-departure Guide. A link to the Pre-departure Guide is included in your admission letter and you are responsible for following all of the instructions provided in it promptly.OrientationWhen you arrive at Concordia, you will have a wide variety of orientations and activities in which you can participate. Some are mandatory, others are elective. We strongly encourage you to attend all of the events that you can.Be sure to attend the mandatory orientation session coordinated by the International Students Office when you arrive. They are all a great way to make new friends!HousingYou have two main housing options: Fun and other useful stuffVisit our Living in Montréal page to prepare for your visit to this great city, including practical links and information on cultural activities.Concordia International© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityStudying on exchange at ConcordiaHow to apply
                
            
                
					
                    Courses and Registration
                
            
                
					
                    Frequently Asked Questions
                
            
                
					
                    Funding
                
            
                
					
                    Accepted studentsQuestions? Contact usConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424CoursesRegistration