http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/international/academic-visitors/swb-traineeship.htmlAs a Science without Borders student, one component of your program in Canada is to complete a research traineeship or internship. At Concordia you have the following options:The District 3 Innovation Center is a place where Concordia’s innovators, intrapreneurs, entrepreneurs and economy converge to create value for industry and entrepreneurs. See apprenticeship opportunities at District 3, or contact them for more information.A research traineeship is a research project you conduct at Concordia under the supervision of a Concordia professor or department.  A research traineeship can be a project you develop in collaboration with your Concordia supervisor or assigned to you in conjunction with one of your supervisor’s existing projects.How to find a research traineeship at ConcordiaWhat to do after finding a faculty member to supervise youWhat are the requirements for a research traineeship or District 3 apprenticeship?Am I guaranteed placement?No, Concordia cannot guarantee placement.  The decision to supervise you is entirely the professor’s or District 3’s.When can I do my research traineeship or apprenticeship?The best time of the year to conduct your research traineeship apprenticeship is in the summer.  There are less courses offered at Concordia during the summer term, planning to take courses during the Fall and Winter terms is advisable for more choices.Are research traineeships or District 3 internships paid?No, they are not paid.What will be my status at Concordia during a research traineeship or District 3 internships?Your status will be an Academic Visitor at Concordia.  You will not have the same access to services as a student.  However, you can obtain a Concordia ID through Human Resources that will provide you with minimum access to the library and allow you to have an e-mail account. 

Are there possibilities to conduct internships outside Concordia?Concordia International is unable to coordinate off-campus internships for you; however, the CBIE might have opportunities for you to apply for off campus placements.Whom Can I Contact if I Have Questions?Concordia International will be happy to address questions about research traineeships at Concordia. Please email studyaway@concordia.ca for more info.Concordia International© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityResearch traineeships for Brazil Science without Borders (SwB) studentsInformation for SwB students wanting to conduct a research traineeship at ConcordiaApprenticeships at District 3Research traineeships with Concordia faculty membersFrequently Asked QuestionsQuestions? Contact usConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424