http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/phd/students/thesis.htmlThe PhD thesis typically entails a major empirical research project (60 credits), conducted under the direction of a thesis supervisor. In completing the thesis component of the program, students apply the concepts studied in their courses and learn how to carry out valid research. In addition, the thesis phase offers students the opportunity to focus on a specific topic of particular interest, as well as to publish their results. 

Typically third year PhD students are required to select a thesis topic, prepare a proposal, and have it accepted by their supervisor. Students normally select a topic addressing a contemporary business issue within their chosen area of specialization.

Students conduct original theory-based research, working in close collaboration with some of the faculty’s senior researchers. They apply the technical and analytical skills learned in their course work to develop strategies and solutions to the problem they are studying. 

The final step is the thesis dissertation. Once students have completed their research and writing, they must present and defend their thesis.

What is a PhD in Administration Thesis?
This document provides information regarding what a thesis is.

 Thesis Proposal & Approval
The proposal is an essential part of the evaluation process which spells out the student’s work activities and study goals for a six month to one year period.

PhD Student Research Funding


Research Ethics & Compliance

Research

Thesis Preparation

Time Line to Defence

Preparing to Defend your PhD Thesis

Concordia University Thesis Database
Program director
Thomas Walker, Associate Dean, Research & Research ProgramsProgram assistant
 Room: MB 11.331
Tel: 514-848-2424, ext. 7352© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityThesis & researchJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessHelpful linksContactsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424