http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2016/01/12/tips-and-tricks-for-beating-the-winter-cold.html
 Meagan Boisse studies in the Department of Journalism. For her recent work term with the Institute for Co-operative Education, she was a roving reporter at Concordia.ca. 
Dearest citizens of Concordia, as you’re probably well aware, winter has reared its cold, snowy head.While some among you may have been overcome with childlike glee upon looking out at today's prodigious snowfall, for others (most notably myself) these first days of Serious Wintertide tend to translate into the commuter’s version of Dante’s Inferno.But while there is plenty of time to reflect upon the tilting of the earth’s axis as you traverse the seven layers of traffic Hell, winter is not all doom and gloom.In fact, as a lifelong Montrealer, I like to fancy myself somewhat of an expert when it comes to extracting warmth and joy out of the season. To this end, I have put together a handy list to help you do the same.
 Always have the number of your local transit authority nearby. Whether it’s CITSO, STM, or AMT, don’t be afraid to call and pester them before leaving your house to make sure the buses are running on time (especially if it’s stormy).Bad weather could mean possible delays, so this precautionary measure might save you from unnecessarily freezing your butt off while waiting for a bus that isn’t coming.
 No need to expose yourself to the blustery winds of winter: Montreal’s Underground City is a subterranean haven from the cold. With 32 km of tunnels that cover 12 square kilometers of the city’s downtown core, you can find everything you need without ever having to go above ground.
 Sub-zero temperatures don’t scare you? Good. Skiing is a seasonal staple, and you’re missing out if you don’t take advantage of the fact that Montreal is ideally situated for day trips to nearby ski resorts.Bromont is less than an hour’s drive from downtown and charges only $39 for its night trails.Mont Blanc, aka the place I broke my leg, is a little over an hour away and boasts the second highest ski peak in the Laurentian region. Bonus: it costs $46 for a full day ticket.If you’re planning on skiing often but are limited in terms of cash flow there’s Saint Sauveur. Also close by, this mountain resort offers a dirt-cheap students pass for $299 (valid all winter.)Mont-Saint-Bruno, on Montreal’s South Shore, and Mont Rigaud, just off the western tip of the Island of Montreal, are two other options closer to home.
 For winter thrills even closer to campus, head up to Mont Royal. The park offers ice skating on Beaver Lake, as well as cross-country skiing and snowshoe trails and tobogganing. If you don’t have your own gear, you can rent skis or skates or snowshoes at the Beaver Lake Pavilion.Most public parks around the city also have outdoor skating rinks. For information on ice conditions, check the City of Montreal website.
 Yup, that's correct.Just because it’s snowing doesn’t mean you have to put your bike away; invest in fenders, put on a pair of slick tires (which cut through slush and snow rather than riding on top of it) and keep your chain from becoming a winter casualty by coating it with cycle-specific winter lube. Who needs natural sunlight when you can drink chocolate? A cup of cocoa’s power to combat the winter blues cannot be underestimated.You can grab a delicious cup of hot chocolate at the Hive Cafés, located on both campuses. Also, the dining halls and cafés run by Concordia’s Food Services offer a selection of toasty drinks.
Wondering what else to do on campus? Check out Concordia's Student Services. 
        Oh My Gourd: it's a pumpkin spice world
    
        Give your extra snowsuit a second life
    
        Cold climate, warm memories
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityWinter is snow jokeStudent hub
            
                Student hub
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsLatest storiesMost popularOPINION: Big Pharma’s troubles are good news for innovationConcordia receives funding for 5 Canada Research ChairsThe fight against fake newsConcordia receives $2 million to advance smart-grid technology‘Student success is more gratifying than any prize’13 essential tips for exam successTo nap or not to nap? Sleep tips for ConcordiansJason Camlot wins the Donald Gray Prize for best Victorian Studies essay‘We are conducting research in a living lab’What's it like to meet  the Oracle of Omaha?6 snowy-day tips for Concordians
 1. Sort out your commute2. Go underground3. Head down ... hill4. Head up ... Mont Royal5. Go for a bike ride6. Find a cozy place to enjoy a warm beverageFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424