http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/phd/tuition-aid.htmlThere are many different sources for funding for PhD students throughout their time in the program. Please see the information below to learn more.A major gift from Montreal-based National Bank offers a $20,000 fellowship to JMSB PhD in Administration students with research interests in entrepreneurship and family business. Approved research projects may be selected from any of the PhD specializations. Applications now open, click here for details!
 Entering students can generally expect to receive partial funding to support their studies in the first three years. The level of funding varies by year and is conditional upon the availability of funds and the student remains in good academic standing.
Each year entrance scholarships are awarded on a competitive basis. The number and amounts vary depending on the availability of funds. 

Every year the School of Graduate Studies (SGS) offers many Fellowships and Awards to graduate students. Visit the SGS graduate funding web page for more information.

View a complete listing of all Concordia University graduate awards.Many graduate students receive support in the form of a stipend paid by a faculty member holding a research grant. If you are interested in a Research Assistantship position please speak to professors in your department.
JMSB typically allocates funds annually to individual departments for teaching assistants, markers, lab demonstrators, conference leaders, etc. Contact professors in your department for details.
This is a grant to assist PhD Students with conference travel. Funding is available to a maximum of $1,200 per fiscal year. Students must apply for this funding a minimum of one month prior to the date of travel. Download the more information about PhD Conference Travel Funding.
This grant is to help students, together with their faculty supervisor, achieve their thesis research objectives. Funding is available to a maximum of $5,000 per student. Download the CASA Fund Grants to Faculty to Assist PhD Student Research document and application form.
This is a grant to assist PhD students with the cost of attending a consortium. Funding is available to a maximum of $500 once during their first five years of the PhD Program. Download the Doctoral Consortium Funding document. Visit Concordia's tuition & fees section to calculate tuition & fees, see deadlines, and learn how fees are billed.Attend an information sessionContact usDownload program brochure© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityTuition & aidJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            Get startedFunding support from the program
                
            
                
					
                    Graduate Awards & Fellowships
                
            
                
					
                    Research Assistantships
                
            
                
					
                    Teaching Assistantships
                
            
                
					
                    PhD Conference Travel funding
                
            
                
					
                    PhD student research (thesis) funding
                
            
                
					
                    Doctoral Consortium fundingFundingTuition & feesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424New – National Bank Initiative in Entrepreneurship and Family Business