http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/students/health/vaccination.htmlMany Concordians are missing vaccines. You are more likely to get and spread these infections if you are missing vaccines. Make sure your vaccines are up-to-date to stay healthy all year long!
 Health Services offers a Routine Adult Vaccine Program; make an appointment with a nurse to:We will answer your questions and share the latest scientific evidence on vaccines. Canada has no mandatory vaccines; it is YOUR decision whether to get vaccinated. However, Concordia University Health Services strongly recommends students keep their vaccines up-to-date, as outbreaks of vaccine-preventable illnesses are happening on Canadian and U.S. campuses every week.Many of the vaccines are provided at no cost to those insured with Quebec Medicare.  Those with out-of-province or international insurance will have to pay for vaccines.  Health Services will provide you with a receipt that you can use to get reimbursed from your health plan, if applicable.  Learn more about your insurance coverage.You can pay with a credit or debit card.  Bring any vaccination records that you have to your appointment. You can even ask your parent/gardian to scan, copy, or send you photos of the pages if you don't have them with you. Any info you can gather will help the nurse determine what you need. But you can still have your vaccine reviewed and updated if you can't find your records, so don't hesitate to book your appointment!
Please note that you are required to remain at Health Services for 15 minutes after you receive a vaccine.
  Since vaccination has become routine in Canada, many major diseases have been brought under control. You may have questions about vaccines. Come talk with a nurse, and explore these reliable resources for more information.Also:
Health Services strives to provide immunizations at the lowest possible cost. We make no profit off vaccines; you pay what we pay.
* Cost of vaccine subject to change without notice.
Campus Wellness and Support Services514-848-2424 x3565514-848-28341550 De Maisonneuve W.
 Room GM-200Monday to Friday
 9 a.m. - 5 p.m.*

*Please note that nursing services begin at 10 a.m. on Thursdays.514-848-2424 x3575514-848-45337141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Room AD-131Monday to Friday
 9 a.m. - 11:30 a.m.
 1 p.m. - 4:30 p.m.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityVaccines (immunizations)Student hub
            
                Student hubRoutine Adult Vaccine ProgramReliable Information About VaccinesVaccines Available at Health ServicesHealth ServicesMore information
Related office
Sir George Williams campusLoyola campusConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424