http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/international/visiting-exchange.htmlAre you a student from abroad interested in studying at Concordia on exchange or as a visiting student? This section is for you!If you are from a university that has an exchange agreement with Concordia, you  can apply to study on exchange at Concordia for one semester or academic year.If your home university does not have an exchange agreement with Concordia University and you would still like to study at Concordia for a term, then you may do so by applying as a visiting international fee-paying (VIFP) student. Concordia International© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityVisiting & exchange studentsStudying on exchange at ConcordiaVisiting fee-paying optionQuestions? Contact usConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/visiting-exchange.htmlAn exciting feature of any university education is the contact students make with individuals from around the world. However, nothing compares to actually discovering the world for yourself!Outgoing CSEPers are full-time BComm or BAdmin program students at JMSB who:JMSB students who study abroad on the CSEP pay their tuition to Concordia University and not to the host institution. JMSB undergraduate students who wish to participate in the Concordia Student Exchange Program (CSEP) must meet the following requirements and observe specific rules:JMSB students who wish to study at an institution that does not have an CSEP partnership with our school or who are not eligible for the CSEP, can apply to be a Visiting International Fee-Paying Outgoing Student at a particularinstitution. However, since this program is not a standardized Study Abroad Program, while away, student will not be recognized as full-time Concordia University student and therefore may not be eligible for government funding/loans while studying abroad. Students wishing to study abroad at non-partner institutions must complete the Student Request Form, a typed letter of intent for why you wish to study abroad, full-course listing and course descriptions for intended study and meet with Amanda Holt.  Students with cumulative GPAs 2.70 and above will be considered.To book an appointment with Amanda Holt, please call 514-848-2424, ext. 2721.Students may study at the John Molson School of Business for one or two semesters as part of an exchange agreement with Concordia University (i.e. Bilateral or CREPUQ).Students who wish to study at Concordia University’s John Molson School of Business, but whose home institution is not a recognized JMSB exchange partner or whose home institution has already filled its reserved exchange (ISEP) spots with other nominated students, can request to be nominated as Visiting International Fee-Paying (VIFP) applicants.Students who wish to study at Concordia University’s John Molson School of Business, but whose home institution is not a recognized JMSB exchange partner or whose home institution has already filled its reserved exchange (ISEP) spots with other nominated students, can request to be nominated as Visiting International Fee-Paying (VIFP) applicants.All sections of the VIFP Application and supporting documentation MUST be TYPED. Hand-written items will not be accepted.Application deadlinesPlease see our page for Canadian visiting and independent students.Will resume in October 2016Wednesday, September 28, 2016 (2:30 p.m.) in room MB 4.206 International Student Affairs, JMSB
1450 Guy St., MB 4.201 (see map)Tel: 514-848-2424 ext. 2721
Fax: 514-848-2822
CSEPrequest.jmsb@concordia.ca© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityVisiting & exchangeJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            Contact usRelated linksConcordia Student Exchange Program (CSEP)
                
            
                
					
                    Visiting fee-paying option
                
            
                
					
                    Study exchange at Concordia
                
            
                
					
                    Visiting fee-paying optionConcordia students: go study abroad!
Students from abroad:JMSB CSEP Information SessionsMandatory workshop for accepted outgoing JMSB CSEP students (2016-2017 Academic Year)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Eligibility requirementsVisiting from a Canadian university?http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/encs/academics/visiting-exchange.htmlGoing on a student exchange paves the way to a future with opportunities around every corner. Whether you study at another Quebec university, the other side of the country or overseas, you'll make new friends, expand your network and enrich your student experience. Engineering & Computer Science students who wish to study at a partner institution must:For complete information, please visit the Engineering and Computer Science Faculty website. ENCS Co-op students: You can go on exchange in your study-term but bear in mind that term durations differ from one country to another and you might be late for the following work-term. Any deviation in your work-study sequence must have prior approval by the director of the Institute for Co-operative Education in consultation with Student Academic Services.Engineering and Computer Science students interested in studying at an institution that does not have an exchange agreement with Concordia may still be granted permission to do so. In this situation, students would be required to pay tuition directly to their host university.In order to be considered for this option, students must submit a Student Request Form to Student Academic Services.Students with cumulative GPAs of 2.70 and above will be considered.All students interested in being a Visitor or a (VIFP) Visiting International Fee Paying student need to obtain information regarding transfer credits and placement of those credits within their Concordia degree.  Students from recognized Engineering and/or Computer Science programs at Canadian Universities outside the province of Quebec must apply online. For application instructions click on the section Visiting students from universities outside Quebec.Please contact Ms. Jacklin Lu at least three months prior to the proposed exchange to determine its feasibility.All potential visiting students must include the following documents in their application:Once external applicants have permission from their Home institutions, their applications to Concordia are first sent to the CIAC here. The CIAC normally sends CREPUQ exchange applications to the Faculty's Student Academic Services (SAS) team beginning in March. Please consult their website or contact them directly for detailed information on the application process to Concordia, including deadline dates.At the SAO for the Faculty of ENCS, applications are categorized first by department quotas, then sorted by academic rank and class average, GPA, etc. Highest ranking and overall Grade Point Averages, including top class averages are considered first.Confirmation of receipt letters are sent to students beginning in early April, and lists of the accepted students are then sent to the CIAC from the SAS of the Faculty. Final acceptances and refusals are usually complete by May. Official letters of admission are then generated by the CIAC and sent to all accepted students with further instructions for registration. Please contact the CIAC for dates.Pre-registration is done by the SAS of the Faculty of ENCS and begins in May. Most students have included course selections in their original application. Once students are pre-registered, email pre-registration confirmations and further instructions required to finalize their registration are sent to students throughout June and July.Changes to the students' registrations are ongoing throughout the summer and on into the first two weeks of classes either in September and/or January.All Exchange students to the Faculty of ENCS who are planning a term or two terms at Concordia, are advised that they must be present at the Host University until the last of their official final exams are completed. The official examination period normally runs from the second day after the end of classes through to the end of the third week after the last day of classes. Please consult the web pages of the Office of the Registrar on Concordia University's website for official examination dates each semester.Exchange students at Concordia wishing to extend their stay from one to two terms, must produce, within a reasonable time frame, an official approval letter from their Home University authorizing their extension. This letter is required by the CIAC In order to meet arrange for Visa requirements for an extended term.Students may study at ENCS for one or two semesters as part of an exchange agreement with Concordia University (i.e. Bilateral or CREPUQ).Learn more and see how to apply.All visitors whose home institutions are not part of an exchange program may attend Concordia for one semester or one academic year by obtaining a letter of permission from their school.International students currently studying at a University outside of Quebec in an Engineering or Computer Science Program and who would like to take courses at Concordia University must get prior approval from the Student Academic Services Office of the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science.To evaluate your request, please send us the following information:Course RegistrationWhen selecting your courses please consult our class schedule to see the course offerings that are available by term and view our course descriptions.  Please note that space in engineering courses is limited and priority for enrollment will be given to Concordia students. The Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science will not allow visiting students to register in any engineering courses without written permission from the student's home university.Please note that the following courses are NOT open to visiting students:
BLDG 490, and CIVI 490;
COMP 490, COMP 492, COMP 495, and SOEN 490;
ELEC 430, ELEC 431, ELEC 432, ELEC 434, ELEC 435, ELEC 438, ELEC 490, and COEN 490;
ENCS 282;
ENGR 107, ENGR 108, ENGR 207, ENGR 208, ENGR 307, and ENGR 308;
INDU 490, MECH 490A, MECH 490B, and MECH 490CAlso note that undergraduate visiting students are not eligible to take graduate level courses.Visiting students wishing to take courses offered in faculties or departments other than Engineering and Computer Science should contact the faculty or department offering the course directly.Approval as to whether or not the courses can be taken will depend on receipt of the above items and whether or not there is sufficient space in the courses in question. Priority is to Concordia Students requiring the courses for their current program of study. For this reason it is important that all requests be submitted at least 4-6 weeks prior to the beginning of term.Please note that submission of a Visiting Student form directly to the Office of the Registrar without prior Faculty approval does not guarantee that you will be allowed to take courses in the Faculty.The above documents should be emailed to:Jacklin Lu, Advisor Student Academic Services
Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W., Room EV-2-102
Montreal, QC
H3G 1M8 Canada
Phone: 514-848-3123
Fax: 514-848-8646
E-mail: jacklin.lu@concordia.ca© Concordia UniversityAbout the Faculty
Academics
Research
Facilities & services
 Student life
 News & events
 ContactConcordia UniversityVisiting and exchange (ENCS)Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science
            
                Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science
            Students from abroadRelated LinksConcordia Student Exchange Program (CSEP)
                
            
                
					
                    Visiting fee-paying option
                
            
                
					
                    Engineering & Computer Science graduate students
                
            
                
					
                    Admission and Registration Procedures for Students Enrolled in an Engineering or Computer Science Program
                
            
                
					
                    Student exchange at Concordia
                
            
                
					
                    International Visitors to the Faculty of Engineering and Computer ScienceConcordia students: go study abroad!Students from a Canadian university outside Quebec
Related resourcesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424