http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/offices/vpaer/aar/2016/11/17/what-does-giving-say-about-your-values.htmlEach of us can help change society for the better. Figuring out how to advance a cause usually starts with a bit of introspection.In the last edition of my column, I wrote about putting together a philanthropic plan. One of the six steps I recommended was: “Ask yourself what kind of society you want to see.” It’s a thought-provoking question that leads to a better personal understanding of where to direct one’s generosity.Hugh McQueen, BEng 54, was an example of that principle in action. He was a distinguished professor emeritus at Concordia’s Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science. Anyone who had the pleasure of knowing the late teacher and prolific researcher could tell you of a cause he advocated strongly: sustainability.Over his 50-year career at Concordia, Hugh’s accomplishments included launching the university’s first graduate program in engineering. Prompted by an oil embargo that caused a crisis in 1973, Hugh started to teach energy strategy. That would prove to be an important cause for the remainder of Hugh’s career.                 Hugh’s history of giving to Concordia reflects his values. The causes the late professor championed in life continue to be supported by his legacy. As someone who was passionate about energy conservation, he gave generously to ENCS and students in the faculty. Those bright young minds, in turn, can advance our society and that cause in the next generation.Though Hugh passed away on December 17, 2015, he continues to shape Concordia’s future. That’s because he was a planned giving donor. His generosity funds the Hugh McQueen Undergraduate Scholarship in Design and Manufacturing and the Hugh McQueen Award of Excellence — both at our Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science. Hugh’s wife Josephine is also a committed donor. In addition to supporting Hugh’s endeavours, she also sustains many different initiatives at Concordia. For the McQueens, Concordia is like family.There are many planned giving options available. While Hugh made a bequest of funds to enable talented engineering students to thrive at Concordia, there are different giving options. One should always look for a win-win situation, where a donor can make a palpable difference for the future while optimizing tax savings.Regardless of the variety of planned gift mechanisms you choose, it will show your ongoing commitment to society and speak to your personal values. Related linksMeet our expert Silvia Ugolini works with accountants, lawyers, notaries, trust officers, insurance advisors, investment professionals and financial planners to help people attain their personal, commercial and philanthropic objectives. Silvia is principal director of Planned Giving at Concordia. She can be reached at silvia.ugolini@concordia.ca or 514-848-2424, ext. 8945.Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityWhat does giving say about your values?Alumni & friends
            
                Alumni & friends
            Related topics#CUgiving  #CUalumniFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424