http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/students/international/living-working/working-in-canada.htmlInternational students can find many opportunities to work in Canada while they study or after they graduate – if you follow the correct guidelines. Throughout the year, the ISO regularly holds information sessions about proper work-related immigration documentation.International Students are eligible to work on the campus of their educational institution as long as they hold a valid Study Permit and are registered full-time during a regular academic semester (fall/winter). Jobs are available in many different departments on campus such as in labs, cafeterias, gyms, etc.If you are interested in working on campus please visit the jobs on campus page, which includes a list of departments that employ students.Graduate students are encouraged to check with their department concerning employment possibilities. They could be hired as a teaching assistant, or a research assistant. They can also apply to work as exam invigilators.Undergraduate and graduate students may be eligible for the Work Study Program offered by the Financial Aid and Awards Office. The Work Study Program is designed to assist full-time Concordia University students, who are in financial need, to pursue their academic goals by providing part-time employment on campus (maximum 200 hours per term). Visit the Work Study website for more details and to find out if you are eligible to apply.A Study Permit may allow you to work off campus as well. Your  Study Permit must be valid. You must be registered as a full-time student and be studying in an academic program that leads to a degree, diploma or certificate that is at least six months in duration at a Designated Learning Instituation (Concordia University is a Designated Learning Institution). You will be allowed to work for up to 20 hours per week during the academic sessions and full-time during scheduled breaks without the need to apply for a separate work permit.If you are in a Co-op Program or need to complete an internship as part of the requirements of your academic program, you must apply for a Co-op Work Permit through Citizenship & Immigration Canada. International Students who are graduating are eligible to apply for a Post-Graduation Work Permit (PGWP) to allow you to work in Canada. You can apply for a Post-Graduation Work Permit (PGWP) and be eligible to work for up to three (3) years in Canada. You must apply for a PGWP within 90 days of receiving your final marks, while still holding a valid Study Permit.Please note: If your Study Permit will not be valid at the time you plan to submit your PGWP application please come to the ISO and meet with an advisor.Apply in person at a Service Canada Centre nearest you.  “900” series SIN number will be issued at the Service Centre when you apply. There is no fee. Bring the following documents with you:Your Study Permit must have one of the following conditions or remarks printed on it in order to apply for a SIN for on and/or off-campus work:If your Study Permit does not include one or both statements you must request an amendment to your Study Permit.International students are permitted and encouraged to complete a federal (Canada) and provincial (Quebec) income tax return. Employment income, scholarships, bursaries, and fellowships are normally subject to income tax. Provincial and federal income taxes are deducted from your salary on every pay cheque.Income tax may be refunded depending on your annual income and expenses. Every year, you will be required to file an income tax return by April 30. Canada Revenue Agency also provides educational videos about income tax designed for international students in English and French.Click the following links for further information regarding federal and provincial taxes:The CVITP is a collaboration between the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) and community organizations. The organizations host tax preparation clinics and arrange for volunteers to prepare income tax and benefit returns for eligible individuals who have a modest income and a simple tax situation.  Find out more about CVITP. International students, who are planning to file taxes for the fiscal year 2015, are welcome to check out documents from the Canadian Tax Information Session given by Tara Ramsaran, MBA, CA, CPA who specializes in taxation, including individual, corporate, estate and sales taxes:(1) Tax Information Session presentation prepared by Prof. Tara Ramsaran(2) mock-up income tax returns: federal and provincial (NOTE: these mock-ups are slightly different compared to ones given out at the session)(3) Application for a Canada Revenue Agency Individual Tax Number (Itn) For Non-Residents  (use only if applicable)Here are links to the forms used in the mock-up income tax returns which are searchable online:1. Federal:1.1. T1 General 20151.2. Schedule 11-Tuition and Education1.3. Statement of World Income, Schedule A (Federal)2. Provincial (Quebec):2.1. TP-1.D-V2.2. Schedule DPlease note that depending on your situation, you may need additional forms to include on your tax return (for example, Schedule 4, Statement of Investment Income and so on), however, all the forms are accessible through the CRA website and  Revenue Quebec website or could be picked up at the local post office. Lastly, for those who would like to listen to the webinar recording of the session, please use the following link.REMINDER:(514) 848-2424, ext. 3515Fax: 514-848-3599iso@concordia.ca 
Contact our staffJoin us on FacebookSir George Williams Campus
H-653 (see map)
1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W.Office hours
Monday to Friday, 9 a.m. - 5 p.m.                          Wednesdays, 11:45 a.m. - 5 p.m.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityWorking in CanadaStudent hub
            
                Student hub
            Working while you are a studentInternational Students OfficeAfter you graduateSocial Insurance Number (SIN)Income taxRelated informationOn-campus workOff-campus workCo-ops and internshipsNeed help preparing your taxes? Check out Community Volunteer Income Tax Program (CVITP)Sample income tax return handoutsContact usLocation & hoursServices and resourcesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424For further information on work while studying, see Canada Immigration website.