http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/biology/about.htmlWe build strong foundations in universal concepts of biology that lead to understanding of a broad range of specialized topics.The Department of Biology is part of the Faculty of Arts and Science. The department is located in the state-of-the-art Richard J. Renaud Science Complex on Concordia's Loyola Campus. Our departmental community consists of 25 full-time faculty, 11 part-time faculty, and 11 affiliated faculty members with a broad area of expertise and interests; over 100 graduate students, who are the driving force of research activities; and departmental technicians and support staff, who hold our department togetherWe offer over 60 Biology undergraduate and graduate courses, in subjects such as cell biology, genetics, genomics, biotechnology, organismal biology, ecology, evolution and conservation biology. Lab courses are performed in spacious and well-equipped teaching labs, which are managed and maintained by our technical staff. Our own computer lab is used for biostatistics, population ecology and bioinformatics labs. We offer BSc, MSc, PhD and graduate diploma programs.Our research fields are grouped into two broad areas of biology: ecology and cell/molecular biology. Both groups are well funded by external research grants, either from federal or provincial governments, or from industry. The harmonious balance between the two groups is maintained by our weekly departmental seminar. Our faculty members are engaged in research in warm collaborative environment, involving internal, external and international collaborations. Many of our faculty members are also affiliated with the Centre for Structural and Functional Genomics, a multi-disciplinary core genomic research facility at the Loyola campus. Check the publication list for our latest discoveries.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityAbout the departmentDepartment of Biology
            
                Department of BiologyWho we areTeachingResearchLearn moreConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/biology/about.htmlWe build strong foundations in universal concepts of biology that lead to understanding of a broad range of specialized topics.The Department of Biology is part of the Faculty of Arts and Science. The department is located in the state-of-the-art Richard J. Renaud Science Complex on Concordia's Loyola Campus. Our departmental community consists of 25 full-time faculty, 11 part-time faculty, and 11 affiliated faculty members with a broad area of expertise and interests; over 100 graduate students, who are the driving force of research activities; and departmental technicians and support staff, who hold our department togetherWe offer over 60 Biology undergraduate and graduate courses, in subjects such as cell biology, genetics, genomics, biotechnology, organismal biology, ecology, evolution and conservation biology. Lab courses are performed in spacious and well-equipped teaching labs, which are managed and maintained by our technical staff. Our own computer lab is used for biostatistics, population ecology and bioinformatics labs. We offer BSc, MSc, PhD and graduate diploma programs.Our research fields are grouped into two broad areas of biology: ecology and cell/molecular biology. Both groups are well funded by external research grants, either from federal or provincial governments, or from industry. The harmonious balance between the two groups is maintained by our weekly departmental seminar. Our faculty members are engaged in research in warm collaborative environment, involving internal, external and international collaborations. Many of our faculty members are also affiliated with the Centre for Structural and Functional Genomics, a multi-disciplinary core genomic research facility at the Loyola campus. Check the publication list for our latest discoveries.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityAbout the departmentDepartment of Biology
            
                Department of BiologyWho we areTeachingResearchLearn moreConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/english/about.htmlLocated in the heart of downtown Montreal, the Department of English is embedded in the city's thriving bilingual artistic and cultural scene. In combination with our faculty’s outstanding academic and creative writing strengths, this creates a stimulating milieu for students to learn and grow as thinkers, writers, and communicators.Ranked among the top 100 English departments in the world by the QS World University Rankings, our faculty, postdoctoral fellows, and graduate students are leaders in humanities research, creative writing, and research creation. Our faculty are well grounded in the study and practice of writing in English in all areas and periods, in addition to more interdisciplinary research concerns such as media studies, sexuality studies, print culture, performance studies, game studies, poetics, globalization, and the environmental humanities.Department faculty and graduate students are key participants in university research centres such as Technoculture Art and Games, Hexagram, the Centre for Interdisciplinary Studies in Society and Culture, and the Loyola Sustainability Research Centre, as well as collaborative, inter-university research projects such as Interacting with Print, CRIHN, Figura/NT2, QCBS, and IMMERSe. The Department of English has been the home to the Association of Canadian College and University Teachers of English (ACCUTE, 2010-2012), and our faculty are active members on a variety of other national and international scholarly associations. National and international recognition for our faculty's research is evidenced in the substantial research funding received from the Social Science and Humanites Research Council of Canada, Le Fonds de recherche du Québec, Fulbright Canada, The Huntington Research Centre, the Networks of Centres of Excellence of Canada the Canada, and the Canada Council for the Arts. Research productivity and faculty expertise are reflected in our recent book publications and research initiatives.Undergraduate academic program students and non-program students take advanced small lecture classes in all periods and areas of literary study, as well as specialized seminar courses with limited enrollments. All creative writing classes, from introductory to advanced, are restricted to creative writing program students or by special permission based on portfolio submissions, and are structured as small seminar or workshop groups.We also offer an exciting range of introductory classes in the history of English literature, introduction to literary studies, and unique electives in areas such as the creative process, the graphic novel, Quebec and Montreal writing in English, and video games as literature.All graduate academic and creative writing classes are seminar style, and held in the physical footprint of the English department. Graduate and undergraduate students have the opportunity to  get involved in faculty research initiatives and creative projects, student colloquiums and research days, and are invited to attend the many presentations and workshops offered by visiting scholars and writers held throughout the academic year.Research productivity and faculty expertise are reflected in our recent book publications and research initiatives. We are known for our innovative curriculum at both the graduate and undergraduate level, and low professor-student ratios in our course offerings. Need advice on course schedules, getting undergraduate advice, admissions, portfolio requirements or completing any other administrative task in the department? Contact our department administrators for more information.We have always hosted a vibrant intellectual community. Literature has been studied here from the earliest days of Loyola College and Sir George Williams University and in the sixties and seventies, the department featured some of Canada's greatest literary minds. Since Concordia's creation in 1974, we have continued to attract outstanding scholars, writers, and thinkers.With many of his personal effects bequeathed to Concordia University, the Mordecai Richler Reading Room is part of the English department. The space is designed to inspire creative writers, spark fresh ideas among students, and foster original research from scholars. The room is closed to the general public. Find out more about the Richler Room.  Concordia University is pleased to host Ann-Marie MacDonald as its first Richler Writer in Residence. A special feature of this residency is a series of digital dispatches by MacDonald in collaboration with The Walrus magazine. Learn more about the writer in residence.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityAbout the departmentDepartment of English
            
                Department of English
            Faculty membersStaff & contactsOur historyRichler Reading RoomRichler Writer in ResidenceAbout the English departmentConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/education/about.htmlOur mission is to provide responsible and innovative leadership in the development and dissemination of knowledge about education. We're known for the exceptional quality of our programs. © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityAbout the departmentDepartment of Education
            
                Department of EducationConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/biology/about.htmlWe build strong foundations in universal concepts of biology that lead to understanding of a broad range of specialized topics.The Department of Biology is part of the Faculty of Arts and Science. The department is located in the state-of-the-art Richard J. Renaud Science Complex on Concordia's Loyola Campus. Our departmental community consists of 25 full-time faculty, 11 part-time faculty, and 11 affiliated faculty members with a broad area of expertise and interests; over 100 graduate students, who are the driving force of research activities; and departmental technicians and support staff, who hold our department togetherWe offer over 60 Biology undergraduate and graduate courses, in subjects such as cell biology, genetics, genomics, biotechnology, organismal biology, ecology, evolution and conservation biology. Lab courses are performed in spacious and well-equipped teaching labs, which are managed and maintained by our technical staff. Our own computer lab is used for biostatistics, population ecology and bioinformatics labs. We offer BSc, MSc, PhD and graduate diploma programs.Our research fields are grouped into two broad areas of biology: ecology and cell/molecular biology. Both groups are well funded by external research grants, either from federal or provincial governments, or from industry. The harmonious balance between the two groups is maintained by our weekly departmental seminar. Our faculty members are engaged in research in warm collaborative environment, involving internal, external and international collaborations. Many of our faculty members are also affiliated with the Centre for Structural and Functional Genomics, a multi-disciplinary core genomic research facility at the Loyola campus. Check the publication list for our latest discoveries.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityAbout the departmentDepartment of Biology
            
                Department of BiologyWho we areTeachingResearchLearn moreConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424