http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/mba/program-details/option-1/accountancy.htmlThis course examines the theory and practice involved in measuring, reporting, and analyzing an organization’s financial information. It provides an overview of the preparation, presentation and analysis of financial statements with an emphasis on existing accounting standards as prescribed by the Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants (CICA) Handbook and other relevant accounting literature. The course focuses on measurement and reporting issues concerning tangible and intangible assets, leases, contingencies and subsequent events as well as revenue recognition in different industries.NOTE:   Students who have received credit for ACCO 561 may not take this course for credit.Prerequisite: ACCO 661  Building on Financial Accounting and Reporting I, this course develops both professional judgement and decision making in financial statement preparation and analysis by examining several current measurement and disclosure issues in financial accounting as prescribed by the Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants (CICA) Handbook and accounting literature. Topics include accounting for long-term debt, employee future benefits, future income tax, financial instruments and earnings per share.   Note:   Students who have received credit for ACCO 571 may not take this course for credit.Prerequisite: MBA 607  This course will cover concepts, principles and practices; approaches and methodology of valuing shares and business interests; control versus minority positions; goodwill; law and valuation; financial statement analysis; and role of the expert witness.White collar crimes threaten the viability of every organization. This course examines the principles and methodology associated with the prevention and detection of occupational fraud, corruption and financial statement fraud. Topics covered include skimming, cash larceny, check tampering, billing schemes, payroll schemes, expense reimbursement schemes, non-cash misappropriations, bribery, bid-rigging schemes and fraudulent financial statements. This course also examines how to conduct investigations, interview witnesses, evaluate internal controls and understand important legislations such as the Criminal Code of Canada. This course is useful to future managers because it focuses on their role in the prevention, detection and disclosure of fraud. This course specifically helps them recognize and analyze the red flags of fraud during regular management reviews and evaluate how they should be investigated. Class sessions consist of round-table discussions, real-life fraud case discussions and the presentation of videos from various sources, including the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners.  The rationale for this course is to introduce students to the theory and practice of Corporate Sustainability Accounting. The course situates corporate activity and accounting within the wider context of Sustainability and Sustainable Development. In particular, emphasis is placed upon the information that corporations produce in order to inform society about its social and environmental impacts, assessing whether that information is credible and considering what other information would ideally benefit society in coming to an informed opinion about whether certain corporations contribute towards sustainability or not.  The course is aimed at students from a wide array of disciplines. The course would be of interest to accounting and other business majors who are interested in understanding how accounting is being transformed by the Sustainability Agenda, as well to students from disciplines outside of business who are interested in Sustainability and who would be keen to explore the role of business and accounting therein.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityMBA Accountancy elective coursesJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessACCO 661   Financial Accounting and Reporting I   (3.0 credits)
                
                    ACCO 671   Financial Accounting and Reporting II   (3.0 credits)
                
                    ACCO 691   Business Valuations   (3.0 credits)
                
                    ACCO 695F   Fraud Prevention & Detection   (3.0 credits)
                
                    ACCO 695T   Accounting and Sustainability   (3.0 credits)Prerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424