http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/adult-education.htmlThe diploma program is designed to enhance the practice of adult education (Andragogy) through the provision of formal study in the theoretical foundations, methods, techniques and problem solving for the professional adult educator working in a variety of settings.Education is a broad and multidisciplinary field that is becoming even more important and exciting as society changes and knowledge diversifies. As an acclaimed centre of innovation and excellence in both teaching and research, Concordia University's Department of Education meets the challenges of the future through its widely recognized degree programs at the undergraduate (BA, BEd) and graduate (Diploma, MA, PhD) levels. Our graduates are highly sought after by school boards, daycares, government, health and social agencies, human resource departments and the business community, as well as other universities and educational institutions.The Department of Education at Concordia offers acclaimed graduate degrees at the diploma level, master's level, and at the doctoral level in four areas of specialization:Graduate studies at Concordia are sustained by an intensive program of faculty research and publication, supported by a healthy level of external funding. We try to offer opportunities to work closely as part of a research team to as many of our graduate students as possible, and through teaching assistantships, some students work closely with professors to further develop their professional skills. The Student Resource Center is a space dedicated exclusively to our graduate students, offering them a place to make and call their own.For admission, a Bachelor's/Baccalaureate degree with a minimum G.P.A. of 2.75. Entry into the program is based upon an assessment of the background and skills of the individual applicant. Applicants should be actively involved in some area of adult education or have the equivalent of one year's experience in the field, (for example, as group leader, trainer, nurse educator, volunteer worker, administrator in an academic institution, business, industry, government or community organization).Applicants will be interviewed prior to admission to the program. The program is open to full-time and part-time students alike.For students whose first language is not English or French, a test of English language proficiency is required. To fulfill this requirement you must provide one of the following: iBTOEFL (90+), or paper based TOEFL (577+), or IELTS (7.0+), or proof that you have achieved the level of Concordia's English 212 course (testing is available through Concordia's English Department) Please contact the department for further details.In special circumstances students may, in consultation with the graduate program director or student advisor, individualize their program of study within the standards set out by the School of Graduate Studies*Fall: Late applications may be considered until April 30.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Email: SGordon@education.concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2030Location: 
 1610 Ste-Catherine Street West, FG 5141
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3H 2S2Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityAdult Education (GrDip)Why study at Concordia?
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Requirement for Diploma
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty research interests
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a graduate diploma in adult education?Related ProgramsGraduate Diploma (GrDip)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424