http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/aerospace-engineering-meng.htmlThe Master of Aerospace Engineering is a course based program that emphasizes a practical, real-world learning experience. Students participate in industry-sponsored case studies and project-based learning. They graduate as well-qualified engineers with promising career opportunities.

The MEng (Aerospace) program provides a multi-disciplinary training environment for students. It enables them to broaden knowledge acquired at the undergraduate level, develop analytical and design skills and enhance their ability to comprehend and solve complex technological concepts.

Students have access to interactive, state-of-the-art computer facilities and industry hardware. They train with aerospace industry partners through an integral component of industrial stage and training working on customer-focused research projects with quantifiable deliverables under the supervision of an experienced engineer in the facilities of a participating company, or a University faculty member. These internships give them a balanced, global outlook that enhances their value in the job market.

The MEng (Aerospace) program is offered in cooperation with other Quebec universities and as many as 20 industry partners. The MEng curriculum is designed to meet the evolving needs of the aerospace sector and is coordinated by two well-known, Quebec based industry organizations: the Comité industries/universités sur la maîtrise en génie aéronautique et spatial (CIMGAS) and the Centre d'adaptation de la main-d'oeuvre aérospatiale au Québec (CAMAQ).Program optionsStudents can choose one of the following areas of specialization:Requirements for the DegreeStudents must complete a minimum of 45 credits of academic work consisting of: 36 credits of course work in the 6000 or 7000 level (2 courses must be taken outside Concordia), Aerospace Case Study (minimum 3 credits) and an Industrial Stage (6 credits). The selection of courses must be approved by the program director. For course prerequisites, refer to the course descriptions.Admission Requirements. Applicants to the MEng Program must hold a bachelor’s degree in engineering or equivalent with high standing. Applicants with a bachelor’s degree in architecture with high engineering content may also be considered for the MEng program. Such students will be required to enrol in an extended program. The Faculty Graduate Studies Committee will determine the acceptability of an applicant for admission to the program and may require an applicant to take specified undergraduate courses in order to qualify for acceptance. Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be required to take such courses in addition to their regular graduate program. Applicants with deficiencies in their undergraduate preparation may be required to take a qualifying program. An ability to write simple programs in a standard computer language will be assumed. Students lacking this skill will be required to register for the appropriate course. This course will be taken in addition to regular degree requirements.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.CurriculumNote: Some graduate courses are content equivalent with specified undergraduate courses. These courses are not available for credit to students who have completed the undergraduate equivalent. Refer to the course description where such courses are marked with an (*).General/Preparatory Core Courses. Normally, 12 credits are required to be completed from the list provided below. Any request for change on this requirement must be approved by the program director. Depending on the background, it may be required for the student to complete certain specified preparatory courses as part of their program.Specialization Courses. 24 credits are to be completed from the specialization courses in one or more of the areas listed below. For other courses available from the participating universities, consult their listings.Students should consult the program director at their home university for the selection of courses to suit their area of specialization and need not confine their choice to any one area. A minimum of two courses are to be taken outside of Concordia (minimum 3 credits per course), at least one each from any two of the participating universities. Courses must be chosen from the equivalent Master of Aerospace Engineering program of the participating universities. For courses available from the participating universities, consult their listings and request permission for limited enrolment courses. A second Aerospace Case Study course may be considered as a specialization course.ENGR 6251, 6261; MECH 6081, 6111, 6121, 6161, 6171, 6191, 6231, 6241.COEN 6711; ENCS 6161; ELEC 6121, 6141, 6301, 6351, 6361, 6381, 6601, 6881;
ENGR 6411, 7181, 7401, 7461; INDU 6411; MECH 6061, 6091, 6621.Note: Students may not take both COEN 6711 and MECH 6621.ENGR 6951, 7201; MECH 6251.
 Course descriptionsView Concordia course descriptions in the Graduate Calendar
 Suggested courses to take at other institutions:Aeronautics and PropulsionAvionics and ControlStructures and MaterialsSpace Engineering   
ENGR 7961 Industrial Stage and Training (6 credits)Prerequisite: Completion of at least twelve credits in the composite option and at least twenty-one credits in the aerospace program or permission of program director.
This is an integral component of the aerospace program in the Mechanical Engineering program that is to be completed under the supervision of an experienced engineer in the facilities of a participating company (Canadian work permit is required). The topic is to be decided by a mutual agreement between the student, the participating company and the program director. The course is graded on the basis of the student’s performance during the work period, which includes a technical report.There may be some restrictions placed on students chosen for the industry sponsored “stage”. For those students who are unable to obtain an industrial stage, it is possible to take ENGR 7961 for a project carried out at the university. Such students must obtain the approval of the program director. Graduate students from the Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Department are invited to apply for Teaching Assistant positions. A minimal mark of A- in the course they are requesting to teach is needed. The priority level when assigning the graduate applicants is: Ph.D., M.A.Sc., and then M.Eng. Priority is to be given to students with good language abilities. Learn more about MIE Teaching Assistantships.Career Prospects. In Montreal, graduates have found work in companies such as Pratt & Whitney Canada, Bell Helicopter, CAE Electronics, Bombardier Aerospace, and others. They hold positions as varied as consulting engineers, aircraft designers, manufacturing plant managers, vice presidents, and chief executive officers. Some have also gone on to form their own companies, while others have taken jobs across Canada and abroad. A number of our graduates hold teaching positions in several universities across North America and in other countries.Email: Hosel@encs.concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 8750Location: 
 1515 Ste-Catherine Street West, EV 4152
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 2W1Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityAerospace Engineering (MEng)Key resourcesProgram options & degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Teaching and research assistantships
                
            
                
					
                    After your degree
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a Master's in Aerospace Engineering?Program detailsRelated ProgramsMaster of Engineering (MEng)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424