http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/encs/aerospace/alumni/alumni.htmlCIADI held its 15th anniversary celebration at the Sofitel on November 11, 2016. This year's guest speaker was Zoran Kahric, Chief Engineer at the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center.  Zoran is an aluminus from Concordia University, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering.  CIADI also invited one of it's alumni from 2010, Niloofar Moradii who gave a very encouraging speech to our current CIADI members.  Niloofar is now working at Pratt & Whitney Canada as a Senior Analyst, Turbine Aerodynamics. View picturesCIADI held its 14th Alumni Event on February 4, 2016 (postponed from December 3, 2015).  The cocktail was held at the Centre Mont-Royal.  There were two guest speakers, Catharine Marsden, Professor, CES and NSERC Chair in Aerospace Engineering.  The CIADI Alumnus for this event was Ismail Mokabel (2004).  Ismail is currently working at Pratt & Whitney Canada as the Senior Director of Commercial Services.  He is the one of the youngest ever to make the executive ranks in P&WC's history.  He is an inspiration to all.   View picturesCIADI held its reception at the Atwater Club on November 21, 2014. This year's cocktail was held at the Club Atwater.  This year's guest speaker was Phil Cole from Marinvent who gave a very uplifting talk.  CIADI also invited Dulce Garcifigueroa, CIADI Alumnus 2008 who is currently working for Bombardier Aerospace as a Quality Project Manager.  A good time was had by all.   Pictures to come
CIADI held its cocktail at the Montreal Masonic Memorial Temple, Grand Lodge on November 29, 2013.  Two speakers were invited to give   Sami Girgis from Pratt & Whitney Canada and Mr. Marc Donato from MDA.  CIADI Alumnus Ahmed Hassanein (2005) gave a very motivating speach.  View pictures
CIADI held its reception at the Gallery Gora on November 23, 2012. (More info to come)  View picturesThis year CIADI celebrated its 10th Anniversary! This event was celebrated at the Omni Hotel on November 11, 2011. The evening's guest of honour was CIADI founder Hany Moustapha. Two CIADI alumni were welcomed to the podium: Mr. Ismail Mokabel (alumnus 2004) who spoke of his experiemce as an Account Manager of P&WC and Ms. Martine Tawfik (alumnus 2006) talked about what it is like to be a Project Engineer for Bombardier Aerospace. View picturesCIADI held it's event on home ground in the Engineering and Visual Arts Pavilion on November 12, 2010. Present for the cocktail, speeches, and awards ceremony were past and present CIADI students, as well as professors, university representatives--including Provost David Graham, and industry leaders.More info to come. View pictures.This year the event was once again held at the Sophitel on November 6, 2009. The guest of honor was Mr. J. Holding, Aerospace Program Advisor, Concordia University. This event was also to say goodbye and honor Dr. Hany Moustapha, founder of CIADI. For pictures View pictures.This year the event was held at the Sophitel on November 28, 2008. Once again this event was represented by around 160 attendees. Opening statements were given by Dr. Robin Drew, Dean, Fac. of Engineering and Computer Science and Dr. Marius Paraschivoiu, Assoc. Prof., Department of Mechanial and Industrial Engineering and Director, CIADI. The guest speakers for this event were Mr. Christian Faucher, Senior Project Manager, Pratt & Whitney Canada and Mr. Pierre Bérard, VP Achieving Excellence System, Bombardier Aerospace. View pictures
CIADI held its 3rd CIADI Alumni Dinner at the Sheraton Center on May 11, 2007. The event was attended by 180 industry and university representatives, CIADI alumni and current CIADI members. Dr. Hany Moustapha and Dr. Nabil Esmail Dean, Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science presented their opning statements. Alumni guest speakers, Mr. Ismail Mokabel, Pratt & Whitney Canda and Ms. Marie Vaillancourt, L3 Communicaitons addressed the audience with their past experiences. Guest speaker, Dr. D.R. Reddy, Chief Turbomachinery & Propulsion Systems Division, NASA gave a lecture. The evening closed with speaches from the representatives of the Concordia Aerospace Executives: Flying High, Mr. John Mannarino, Mannarino Systems and Software, Mr. Kostas Stavrianos, Rolls-Royce Canada, Mr. Sami Girgis, Pratt & Whitney Canada and Mr. Danny Di Perna, Air Canada Technical Services. View picturesCIADI held its 2nd CIADI Alumni Dinner at the Ritz-Carleton Hotel on April 28, 2006. Approximately 200 people which included included CIADI Alumni, CIADI current members, top representatives from major industries, university and goverment agencies. The guest of honor was Dr. Claude Lajeunesse, President of Concordia University. Dr. Nabil Esmail Dean, Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science and Mr. Francois Caza, Vice President of Engineering, Bombardier Aerospace were also present to give their insights to the aerospace industry. During the evening 5 CIADI alumni were invited to present their past experiences of CIADI and thier present work experience. View picturesCIADI held its 1st CIADI Alumni Dinner at the Ritz-Carleton Hotel in May 2005. The event was attended by close to 250 people which included CIADI Alumni, CIADI current members, top representatives from major industries, university and goverment agencies. The guests of honor were Dr. Martin Singer, Provost, Concordia University, Dr. Nabil Esmail Dean, Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science and Mr. Danny DiPerna, Vice President of Operations at Pratt & Whitney Canda. Mr. DiPerna, a Concordia alumni was also the guest speaker of the evening. The goal of this event is create a bridge to help maintain continuity across past, present, and future students in the field of aerospace.  View picturesThe 4th CIADI Annual Recognition Ceremony was held on December 2, 2004. This year's event was to acknowledge it 63 members for their contributions to the future of aerospace. Recognition awards were also presented to Wafaa Ishak, Chief Rotor and Mechanical Systems at Bell Helicopter Textron; Carlos Trindade, Administrator, Strategic Technology at Bombardier Aerospace; Gerhard Serapins, Manager, Research and Development at CAE; Hélàne Chiasson, Assistant Manager at Pratt & Whitney Canada, and Shelley Sitahal, Manager, Industry and Partnership at Concordia University.On November 17, 2003, CIADI held its third annual recognition ceremony. Attending were eight industry partners and the new Consortium de recherche et d'innovation aerospatiale au Quebec (CRIAQ). This year's event was in recognition of its 45 members.The 2nd Annual Recognition Ceremony was held on November 6, 2002. This year forty-two students were congratulated for their achievements. In addition to the students receiving their recognition certificates an "Excellence Award" was given to Mr. Danny Di Perna, VP of Procurement at Pratt && Whitney Canada for his outstanding contribution to the field of gas turbines and to the success of CIADI.CIADI held it's first Recognition Ceremony on November 19, 2001. This recognition ceremony was to acknowledge the accomplishments of the first 26 CIADI members.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityAlumni Recognition CeremonyConcordia Institute of Aerospace Design & Innovation (CIADI)
            
                Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design & Innovation (CIADI)
            Stay connectedRelated linksCIADI CocktailCIADI CocktailCIADI CocktailCIADI CocktailCIADI CocktailCIADI Alumni DinnerCIADI CocktailCIADI Alumni DinnerCIADI Alumni DinnerCIADI Alumni DinnerCIADI Alumni DinnerCIADI 1st Alumni DinnerCIADI 4th Annual Recognition CeremonyCIADI 3rd Annual Recognition CeremonyCIADI 2nd Annual Recognition CeremonyCIADI 1st Annual Recognition CeremonyConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424