http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/encs/future-students/applying-graduate.htmlThe Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science of Concordia University welcomes applicants from all parts of Canada, the United States and abroad. In keeping with the general principles accepted by all Québec universities, the policy of Concordia is that admission is open to any qualified applicant, in the program of his or her choice, within the limits of its resources.For information on how to apply to the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science as well as details on programs, admission requirements, paying for your education, campus resources, student life, and campus visits, please visit the University's official webpage applicants.Access the following information and forms:More information is available on the School of Graduate Studies website.NB: Acceptance to PhD,  MASc and MCompSc programs - thesis option requires a supervisor/professor recommendation. Please refer to the Research Expertise Guide within the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science to find a professor whose research specializations interest you. Once you find a topic that interests you, initiate a contact with the professor via email and, hopefully, you will be able to start your chosen program at Concordia University in a future session.The provisional minimum acceptance score for the Internet-based Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iBT) for admission into a graduate program for students whose first language is not English and/or who have not received a substantial amount of their education in English is 85, with a minimum of 20 in each section. In all cases, Concordia reserves the right to require proof of English proficiency when such proof is deemed necessary. (Concordia will accept test results for the paper-based TOEFL if they are less than 2 years old). The minimum required score for the paper-based TOEFL is 563. The IELTS (International English Language Testing System) requires a minimum Band score of 6.5. Individual programs may require a higher score. Applicants should check their prospective program's requirements.

In addition to the general admission requirements, the Faculty may require applicants to write the Engineering Writing Test (EWT) as a condition of admission to all graduate programs in Engineering and Computer Science. Depending on the result, students may be required to complete remedial English language courses in addition to their program requirements. © Concordia UniversityAbout the Faculty
Academics
Research
Facilities & services
 Student life
 News & events
 ContactConcordia UniversityApplying to graduate programsFaculty of Engineering & Computer Science
            
                Faculty of Engineering & Computer ScienceHow to apply
                
            
                
					
                    English Language Proficiency Admission RequirementsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424