http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/applied-linguistics.htmlThe MA in Applied Linguistics targets students who wish to broaden their knowledge of theoretical frameworks and methodological approaches to second language acquisition from a multidimensional perspective which embraces the disciplines of education, psychology, and linguistics. Our students will discover new and practical applications for theory and research, allowing them to address a wide range of language-related issues that affect individuals and society. Our graduates work as researchers, language instructors, consultants, and teacher trainers at educational institutions and organizations across Canada and globally. The Department of Education is situated in the Faculty of Arts and Science. Like other disciplines within the Faculty, it is a broad and multidisciplinary field. It intersects with anthropology, history, philosophy, political science and sociology. Education is one of the most widely held cultural values in societies around the world. As an academic discipline, it continues to evolve as society changes and knowledge diversifies.Department faculty members have access to external research funding and provide financial assistance in the form of research assistantships to qualified students. These assistantships enable students to work on cutting edge research projects.

The department offers an array of courses available to Applied Linguistics students. These are centred around the following topic clusters:Furthermore, the MA students may take a certain number of electives in other university departments or at other universities.
Concordia's Department of EducationThe Department of Education provides responsible and innovative leadership in the development and dissemination of knowledge about education. It is an acclaimed centre of innovation in both teaching and scholarship. Its graduate programs have solid national and international reputations for excellence. Their standing is based, in part, on the pedagogical philosophies and research productivity of faculty members. They are a diverse group of educators committed to providing superior levels of teaching, research and community service.Departmental programs reflect the multidimensional nature and real world orientation of faculty research interests in both school-based and non-school based educational settings. In addition to the MA program in applied linguistics, the department offers a Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Applied Linguistics). It also offers graduate degrees in child study, educational studies and educational technology.The department also houses a Centre for the Study of Learning and Performance (CSLP). The CSLP is a provincially recognized research centre dedicated to improving the theoretical and practical understanding of factors that promote or hinder the learning and performance of complex skills for people of all ages. It provides training and support to educators and administrators, as well as graduate students, and disseminates new ideas to the educational community.In keeping with its practical approach to real world learning and research, the department also houses an Observation Nursery. This is a model nursery school with an enriched program for three and four year old children. Students can observe children in the nursery and actively participate in discussion seminars with their parents and teachers.Due to the department’s focus on research and development and the strong publication records of its faculty, organizations across Canada, the US, Europe and Asia solicit graduate students for internships and permanent positions. Government and non-governmental organizations, industry and educational institutions regularly call upon the department to partner on exciting applied research projects.  Two program options exist. Students in the thesis option engage in hands-on research projects which often make an original contribution to knowledge, while those in the course-based (without thesis) option have the opportunity to broaden their perspectives on applied linguistics through a variety of engaging courses.Option AMA in Applied Linguistics with ThesisOption BMA in Applied Linguistics without ThesisAdmission Requirements. Applicants are selected on the basis of their past academic record, competence in written and spoken English, letters of recommendation, and experience teaching a second or a foreign language. To be accepted into the program, a student is required to have an undergraduate degree with a minimum GPA of 3.00 (B average). An academic concentration in second language acquisition, applied linguistics, pedagogy, education, or related discipline and at least one year of professional experience in the field of second language teaching and learning or related areas are desirable. Knowledge of a second language is an asset.Your completed application will include:Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures. All applications must be submitted to the Graduate Admissions Application Centre.*Fall: Late applications may be considered until April 30.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Core CoursesAll students must take the following core courses: APLI 604, APLI 621, APLI 660.APLI 604 Applied Language Studies (3 credits)
This course examines the different theoretical concepts and methods used to analyze and describe the linguistic structure of language, and explores ways in which these can be applied to the teaching of second languages. The course introduces students to the key concepts that characterize the different components of language, namely phonology, morphology, syntax and semantics, within an approach that recognizes that languages can be affected by the social, psychological, and pragmatic aspects of human behaviour.APLI 621 Issues in Second Language Acquisition (3 credits)
Research in second language acquisition (SLA) is surveyed in this course. Students read, critique, and discuss a number of research reports and survey articles on topics including research techniques in SLA, individual differences believed to affect success in second language learning (e.g., age, motivation), the systematicity of learner language (interlanguage, developmental sequences), the influence of learners’ first language on the structure of their interlanguage, the development of general theories of SLA. The course concludes with a discussion of SLA research carried out in classroom settings.APLI 660 Research Methods I (3 credits)
The principal aims of the course are to enable students better to evaluate reports of empirical research in the language sciences and to plan limited studies of their own. Emphasis is placed upon the logic of research designs, the nature of scientific proof, and the assumptions underlying data analytic procedures. Case studies of published research, readings and lectures illustrate the concepts of data, scales, models, sampling, theory, description, estimation and significance testing.Cluster CoursesThesis students take a minimum of one course from each cluster; non-thesis students take a minimum of two courses from each cluster.Cluster A: Theoretical Perspectives on Second Language AcquisitionAPLI 623 Sociolinguistic Aspects of Bilingualism and Multilingualism
This course is an introduction to educational and sociolinguistic issues affecting the promotion and maintenance of individual and societal bilingualism, multilingualism, and multiculturalism. The societal consequences of being multilingual and multicultural and the perspectives of both students and educators in multilingual/multicultural language classrooms will be examined.
Note: Students who have received credit for APLI 642 may not take this course for credit.APLI 624 Psycholinguistic Aspects of Second Language Acquisition
Prerequisite: APLI 660 (previously or concurrently).
This course examines issues in second language acquisition and bilingualism/multilingualism from a cognitive (psycholinguistic) perspective. The aim of the course is to familiarize students with basic psycholinguistic concepts of language representation and use, focusing on the learning of different aspects of language, the role of attention and memory in language acquisition, the development of language comprehension and production skills, and the cognitive consequences of bilingualism/multilingualism. Throughout the course, emphasis is given to understanding research methodologies used in psycholinguistic investigations.
Note: Students who have received credit for APLI 642 may not take this course for credit.APLI 625 Second Language Acquisition as Skills Learning
 The course provides an overview of several approaches to second language learning including topics ranging from fluency, formulaic language, frequency effects, and automatization. The course also provides a research-informed approach to the study of these topics in second language learning contexts, exploring trends in second language acquisition research and pedagogy that are relevant to the understanding of skill development. 
Note: Students who have received credit for this topic under an APLI 651 number may not take this course for credit.APLI 626 Variationist Second Language Acquisition
 The acquisition of a second language is a process that is inherently variable due to factors such as the influence of the learner’s first language, the target language, extralinguistic variables, and other factors. This course examines the interplay of these variables, focusing on current research in variable second language acquisition and on the pedagogical implications and applications of this knowledge for second language teaching.
Note: Students who have received credit for this topic under an APLI 651 number may not take this course for credit.APLI 627 Individual Differences in Second Language Acquisition
 The course provides an overview of learners’ individual differences in cognitive, social, affective, and motivational variables and the role of those differences in second language teaching and learning. Course topics may include language aptitude, motivation, learning and cognitive styles, personality, and language learning strategies. The course offers a research-based framework for understanding how individual differences impact language learning for different learners in various learning contexts. 
Note: Students who have received credit for this topic under an APLI 651 number may not take this course for credit.APLI 634 Cross-Linguistic Influence
Prerequisite: APLI 604.
This course provides an overview of different perspectives that have been taken on the ways previously learned languages affect the learning of subsequent languages. Topics include: the contrastive analysis and error analysis approaches; avoidance; markedness; selective, bidirectional, and conceptual transfer; and factors affecting cross-linguistic influence among trilingual and multilingual speakers. Throughout the course, the implications for language teaching of the theoretical perspectives and empirical findings are considered.Cluster B: Focus on LanguageAPLI 601 Phonological Aspects of Second Language Acquisition
Prerequisite: APLI 604 (previously or concurrently).
This course is an introduction to second language phonology, with emphasis on how theoretical knowledge and research can be applied to the teaching of pronunciation in traditional and computer-based environments. This course familiarizes students with the English sound system and associated phonetic phenomena, research in the development of second language phonology, and key concepts in phonemic representation, production and perception.APLI 610 Teaching and Learning Second Language Vocabulary
Prerequisite: APLI 604 (previously or concurrently).
The course provides an overview of research perspectives on second language vocabulary acquisition. Topics include the characteristics of lexis, the structure of the mental lexicon, implicit and explicit learning, and issues in assessment. The course also outlines a research-informed approach to instruction: in addition to examining both old and new techniques for teaching vocabulary, it explores developments in corpus linguistics that are relevant to vocabulary instruction and materials design.APLI 616 Pedagogical Grammar
Prerequisite: APLI 604 (previously or concurrently).
This course surveys the theoretical and empirical literature related to the teaching and learning of grammar in second language classrooms. Topics include the nature of pedagogical rules, the use of metalinguistic terminology, teachers’ knowledge and beliefs, learner characteristics, task types, and sequencing. Students also study a grammar structure in depth for which they subsequently develop, pilot, and critically evaluate a set of instructional materials.APLI 636 Language Awareness
 This course focuses on current research and practice in language awareness relating to language teaching and learning for a variety of learners in different contexts. Topics may include the learning of first, second and additional languages, language teaching methodology, language teacher education, attitudes towards language, cross-linguistic and cross-cultural awareness, and critical language awareness. Throughout the course, emphasis is placed on both the theoretical and practical implications of language awareness. 
Note: Students who have received credit for this topic under an APLI 651 number may not take this course for credit.APLI 643 Pragmatics and Second Language Acquisition
 The course provides an overview of pragmatics, which includes topics ranging from reference, implicature, presupposition, speech acts, information structure, and conversational structure. The course also provides a research-informed approach to the study of these topics in second language learning contexts, exploring developments in second language research that are relevant to the understanding of pragmatics.Cluster C: Focus on the ClassroomAPLI 625 Second Language Acquisition as Skills Learning
 The course provides an overview of several approaches to second language learning including topics ranging from fluency, formulaic language, frequency effects, and automatization. The course also provides a research-informed approach to the study of these topics in second language learning contexts, exploring trends in second language acquisition research and pedagogy that are relevant to the understanding of skill development. 
Note: Students who have received credit for this topic under an APLI 651 number may not take this course for credit.APLI 630 Second Language Syllabus Design and Curriculum Planning
The aims of the course are to examine the evolution of the syllabus in second language teaching and to consider issues related to the development, planning and implementation of language programs in a range of educational settings. Topics include the history of second language teaching; current issues in pedagogical practice; assessment of student needs; and the design, sequencing, and evaluation of language teaching materials.
Note: Students who have received credit for APLI 638 may not take this course for credit.APLI 635 Language Assessment
The course provides an overview of theory and research that informs language testing. Students explore historical developments in language assessment as well as current trends. The course enables them to critically evaluate a range of test types including standardized placement instruments, diagnostic tests, progress/achievement measures, and non-traditional assessment techniques. Students are guided in designing sample tests; they are also familiarized with established methods for analyzing test items and interpreting results.APLI 636 Language Awareness
 This course focuses on current research and practice in language awareness relating to language teaching and learning for a variety of learners in different contexts. Topics may include the learning of first, second and additional languages, language teaching methodology, language teacher education, attitudes towards language, cross-linguistic and cross-cultural awareness, and critical language awareness. Throughout the course, emphasis is placed on both the theoretical and practical implications of language awareness. 
Note: Students who have received credit for this topic under an APLI 651 number may not take this course for credit.APLI 644 Technology in Language Learning
This course explores theoretical and applied issues related to the use of technology in second language learning and teaching. The principal aims of the course are to enable students to critically evaluate existing instructional uses of technology and to design methodologically sound technology-based materials for second language teaching. Emphasis is placed on developing skills needed for the integration of instructional technology into second language instruction.APLI 647 Supervision of Practice Teaching
 This course is designed for students who have some ESL teaching experience and a particular interest in working in the field of teacher training. The course has both a practical and a theoretical component. In the practical component, students observe and assist novice ESL teachers; in the theoretical component, students meet weekly in an academic seminar.Elective CoursesEach year the department offers a selection of courses from those listed below. All courses are worth 3 credits unless otherwise noted.APLI 613 History of the English LanguageAPLI 641 Research Methods II
Prerequisite: APLI 660.
The principal aims of the course are to enable students to evaluate the statistical information provided in reports of empirical research in the social sciences and use statistics in small scale studies. Emphasis is placed upon the logic of statistical tests, the assumptions underlying their use, and the interpretation of the results. The course also includes basic elements of data analysis and synthesis in research employing qualitative methodologies.
 Note: Students who have received credit for this topic under an APLI 651 number may not take this course for credit.APLI 646 Literacy
 APLI 651 Special Topics in Applied Linguistics
This course provides an advanced treatment of specialized literature in an area of Applied Linguistics.
APLI 671 Reading Course in Applied Linguistics I
 APLI 672 Reading Course in Applied Linguistics II
 APLI 673 Reading Course in Applied Linguistics III
 APLI 674 Reading Course in Applied Linguistics IV
 APLI 675 Reading Course in Applied Linguistics V (6 credits)ThesisAPLI 690 Thesis Proposal (3 credits)
APLI 691 Thesis (18 credits)
APLI 696 Research Paper (12 credits)The faculty are active researchers with strong publication records and internationally-recognized reputations. As active practitioners in the field of applied linguistics, they promote the communication of sound pedagogical principles and approaches and the values of equality, diversity and non-discrimination. Constructive faculty-student relationships are facilitated by small class sizes, collaborative approaches to learning and a commitment to individual mentoring.Faculty research emphasizes the investigation of second language learning and teaching from a variety of theoretical and practical perspectives and under various instructional conditions. Research expertise includes:Part-time teaching positions may be available for qualified full-time students with experience in relevant areas of second language teaching and learning/teaching English as a second language.

A limited number of research assistantships are awarded to graduate students each year.Email: Nadine@education.concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2034Location: 
 1610 Ste-Catherine Street W., FG 5140
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3H 2S2Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityApplied Linguistics (MA)Why study at Concordia?
                
            
                
					
                    Program options and degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application process
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty research interests
                
            
                
					
                    Assistantships & internships
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a master's in Applied Linguistics?Program DetailsRelated ProgramsMaster of Arts (MA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424