http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/building-engineering-meng.htmlThe MEng program is designed to provide practicing engineers with an opportunity to strengthen and extend the knowledge they have obtained at the undergraduate level, to develop their design skills, and to enhance their ability to present technical material in written form.The program requires satisfactory completion of 45 credits of course work. All graduate courses are scheduled in the evening, particularly convenient for practicing engineers having full-time employment.OptionsApplicants to the Master of Engineering may apply to the Industrial Experience option in the industrial milieu through the Institute for Co-operative Education.SpecializationsSpecializations are offered in one of the following four branches:Applicants lacking the appropriate engineering background will be required to enrol in an extended program of specified courses. These courses are in addition to the regular 45-credit program.Requirements for the DegreeAdmission Requirements. Applicants to the MEng Program must hold a bachelor’s degree in engineering or equivalent with high standing. Applicants with a bachelor’s degree in architecture with high engineering content may also be considered for the MEng program. Such students will be required to enrol in an extended program. The Faculty Graduate Studies Committee will determine the acceptability of an applicant for admission to the program and may require an applicant to take specified undergraduate courses in order to qualify for acceptance. Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be required to take such courses in addition to their regular graduate program. Applicants with deficiencies in their undergraduate preparation may be required to take a qualifying program. An ability to write simple programs in a standard computer language will be assumed. Students lacking this skill will be required to register for the appropriate course. This course will be taken in addition to regular degree requirements.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Students must complete 45 credits of 6000 or 7000 level courses. The courses must be selected as follows:A minimum of 21 credits chosen from one of the Course Groups in List A. This set of courses may also include the project and seminar courses ENGR 6991, BCEE 6961 or the industrial training course ENCS 6931.List A: Course Groups in Building Engineering ProgramGroup 1 - Building Environment: BLDG 6611** plus courses in the Topic Areas: E07, E21, E23.Group 2 - Building Science: BLDG 6611** plus courses in the Topic Areas: E21, E22.Group 3 - Building Structures: Topic Areas: E06, E21, E31.Group 4 - Construction Management: Topic Areas: E21, and E24.** Students who completed the undergraduate equivalent of BLDG 6611 must replace it by a course to be approved by the Graduate Program Director.
For topic course lists by topic area, please visit the Graduate Calendar.For course descriptions, please visit the Graduate Calendar.Research in building engineering falls into a number of categories, including: computer-aided design, performance of building envelope and materials, building environment (HVAC, acoustics, illumination, air quality), building and energy, wind effects on buildings, building structures, and construction management.Email: Jenny@encs.concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 3205Location: 
 1515 St. Catherine W., EV 6.154
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 2W1Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityBuilding Engineering (MEng)Key resourcesProgram options & degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty research interests
                
            
                
					
                    Teaching and research assistantships
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a Master's in building engineering?Program detailsRelated ProgramsMaster of Engineering (MEng)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424