http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/business-administration-phd.htmlThe Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Business Administration is joint degree program to promote advanced scholarship and stimulate research on management solutions. It is offered by the John Molson School of Business (JMSB) in conjunction with three other Montreal-based universities:This joint PhD degree program has been offered since 1976. It offers Doctoral students the opportunity to obtain the greatest possible expertise in their chosen field or specialization.

Privileges include access to more than 300 highly qualified faculty members and world-renowned researchers. Many of these professors are leading scholars with advanced degrees from prestigious academic and research institutions. They are widely published in academic journals and texts and sit on the boards of many learned societies.PhD courses are cross-listed, meaning students have the opportunity to take courses at all four affiliated institutions.The bilingual nature of the joint PhD program is one of its greatest strengths. The program serves as a meeting place for scholarship from diverse research traditions in North American and European cultures. This makes the program one of the leading destinations for management studies in Canada. Students are not required to be bilingual but will benefit most if they are able to understand both English and French when written and spoken.The JMSB PhD program has a semi-structured curriculum design that allows students to pursue personal research and career interests. The program requires students to choose a major area of specialization, as well as a minor support area, in order to develop the conceptual, analytical, and research skills required to make a significant contribution to the field of knowledge.Major disciplines include:Related interdisciplinary fields and subfields include:The John Molson School of Business (JMSB) is one of Canada’s most highly respected business schools. It is one of only 17 institutions in the country that is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), the world’s premier business school accrediting body. This prestigious designation ensures adherence to rigorous academic standards and reflects the outstanding quality of JMSB teaching and research programs.

The JMSB offers both MBA and non-MBA graduate programs that provide a stimulating, practical and flexible approach to management education.

Its Master of Business Administration (MBA) programs areIts non-MBA graduate programs areAll graduate programs are highly rated, both nationally and internationally.JMSB programs provide an intellectually challenging environment for academically accomplished students who want to develop both general and specialized management skills. JMSB faculty members are deeply committed to academic excellence, ground breaking research and student support. They understand current business issues and market trends. They bring a wealth of teaching and industry experience to the classroom. Students benefit from small class sizes and the individualized feedback and one-on-one attention of professors. Their learning experiences are also enriched by the different perspectives of a diverse student body and outstanding resources and research facilities.

JMSB internationally acclaimed research centres and laboratories, includeStudents gain research experience by working closely with faculty members on various projects. They learn how to apply advanced theories and techniques to modern business issues. They graduate with the theoretical knowledge and solid understanding of administrative practices that prepares them for successful careers in management or in academia as professors or researchers.
During their studies, students develop personal relationships and professional connections that they continue to nurture long after graduation. The JMSB alumni network of nearly 40,000 graduates includes many who have assumed leadership positions in Global Fortune 500 companies and with national and international organizations. Their accomplishments add distinction to the Faculty and to the intrinsic value of a JMSB graduate degree.Doctoral students choose one of five areas of research specialization:For a complete list of application deadlines, please consult the deadlines page.All applications must be submitted online.Applicants must complete a Graduate Admission Application and submit supporting documents.Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures.Consult the graduate calendar for a complete list of current courses.Teaching assistantships of two courses per academic year are available to PhD students in Phases II and III. Students are discouraged from working during their first year in the program.

Students in financial need may hold research assistantships on a part-time basis (10 to15 hours per week).
Email: phdmsc.jmsb@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 7352Location: 
 1450 Guy St., MB 11.331
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3H 0A1Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityBusiness Administration (PhD)Why study at Concordia?
                
            
                
					
                    Degree options
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            Application deadlinesAdditional requirements
                
					
                    Sample classes
                
            
                
					
                    Assistantships & internships
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a doctorate in business administration?Program DetailsRelated ProgramsDoctorate (PhD)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424