http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/about/community/get-involved/centraide.htmlOn the island of Montreal, one in four people live on a low income. A life cycle marked by poverty creates so many problems: people drop out of school, can't get enough to eat, have trouble finding housing, experience social isolation and don't live as long.This is why Concordia continues to support the United Way/Centraide year after year after year.Send an email to unitedway@concordia.ca to participate in the following initiatives:What's new?The campaign begins October 18!The SGW Pasta lunch raised $1,640!  Thank you for your support!The winner of the early bird prize - $200 gift card to Best Buy - is Judith Lashley! The Concordia's Got Talent Concert, Beatles Review, was a great success and raised $2100 for Centraide.  A big thank you to the sponsors, the performers and the musicians!
Make a secure donation online here or download a paper pledge form here   Calendar of events
 In order to bring the Concordia community together, the campaign holds a number of events to raise more funds for the United Way/Centraide campaign. Mark your calendars!
 
 November 1, 11:30 a.m. to 2 p.m. Pasta lunch in the EV atrium
 November 23, 12:10 p.m. Concordia's Got Talent Concert in the D.B. Clarke Theatre, Henry F. Hall Building
 November 30, 11:30 a.m. to 2 p.m. Loyola Pasta lunch in the RF
 December 5, 4:15 p.m. Closing Thank you in the EV atrium - announcing the winners of the raffle and 50/50 draws
 
A huge THANK YOU to the sponsors of the campaign:
 
 Office of the VP, Advancement and External Relations and University Secretariat - campaign coordination
 Hospitality Services - event coordination
 Food Services and Aramark Catering - food and beverages
 Pekarna Bakery - food and beverages
 IITS - IT services
 Distribution Services - set up and tear down of events
 Custodial Services - clean up of events
 CUPFA, CUFA, ACUMAE - raffle and weekly prizes
 Faculty of Fine Arts and the DB Clarke theatre
 Concordia's United Way/Centraide campaign is taking place between October 18 and December 5, 2016. During this time we will be asking you to join us in giving to United Way/Centraide of Greater Montreal. In the Montreal area, 1,700 businesses will also be doing what they can to raise money for the United Way/Centraide. It is wonderful to be part of this fundraising effort that we undertake as one large community.Read the full message...See the neighbourhood profiles:Bram Freedman (Chair)
Linda Hubert
Enza De Cubellis
Andrea Renaud
Sophie Mailloux
Johanne Pelletier
Nancy Curran
Miriam Posner
Jay Mazzamauro
Olivia Ward
Andrew Woodall© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityConcordia’s United Way/Centraide CampaignConcordia's United Way/Centraide campaign starts October 18, 2016From Concordia's Centraide ChairLearn more about Centraide of Greater MontrealFind out how you can change lives for life!Help us raise $190,000 for our city's most vulnerable citizens!Centraide CommitteeConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424