http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/chartered-professional-accountancy.htmlThe Diploma in Chartered Professional Accountancy program prepares students for careers in chartered professional accountancy. This program is officially recognized as part of the Professional Education Program of the Ordre des comptables professionels agréés du Québec and qualifies students to write the Common Final Examination (CFE). The teaching faculty includes practitioners in public accountancy, assurance, information technology and taxation.
The John Molson School of Business (JMSB) enjoys a long and proud tradition of excellence in graduate accounting education and our dedicated instructors have years of audit, consulting and accounting experience.Our new CPA program will build on the successes of our CA program which always had an excellent first-time writer pass rate. The new graduate diploma will accommodate students with career objectives both within, and outside of, public accountancy, which will be determined by their choice of elective courses. Furthermore, credits obtained in the CPA program will be transferable to the John Molson MBA program, subject to some conditions.JMSB is one of Canada’s most highly respected business schools. It is one of a select few institutions in the country that is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), the world’s premier business school accrediting body. This prestigious designation ensures adherence to rigorous academic standards and reflects the outstanding quality of JMSB teaching and research programs.During their studies, students develop personal relationships and professional connections that they continue to nurture long after graduation. The JMSB alumni network of nearly 40,000 graduates includes many who have assumed leadership positions in Global Fortune 500 companies and with national and international organizations. Their accomplishments add distinction to the Faculty and to the intrinsic value of a JMSB graduate degree.Admission Requirements. Applicants must possess a bachelor’s degree. Students holding an undergraduate degree with a major in Accountancy, with high academic standing (minimum GPA of 3.00 as well as minimum B- grade in specified courses) will normally have satisfied the prerequisite requirements. Applicants lacking the appropriate undergraduate work are required to successfully complete certain qualifying courses, as assigned by the program director.Additional requirements and prerequisite courses:Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures.Due to the program structure, students can only register for up to eight credits (two courses) per term. Students, who take two courses per term and who are accepted in the Summer Term, may complete the program in four terms. Students, who take two courses per term and are accepted in the Fall term, may complete the program in six terms. Students, who take two courses per term and are accepted in the or Winter term, may complete the program in five terms.

Students who take less than two courses per term will take longer to finish the program.

The sample completion schedules, below, are based on completing either one or two courses per term.View full program details for a complete list of current courses.Email: gradacco.jmsb@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 7344Location: 
 1450 Guy St., MB 14.115
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3H 0A1Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityChartered Professional Accountancy (CPA)Why choose Concordia for your CPA program?
                
            
                
					
                    Admission and degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Program structure
                
            
                
					
                    Sample classes
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a graduate diploma in Chartered Professional Accountancy?Program detailsSample completion schedulesRelated ProgramsGraduate Diploma (GrDip)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424