http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/child-studies-ma.htmlConcordia University's Master of Arts in Child Studies provides an individualized and exciting way to enter the world of children from a variety of scholarly and practical perspectives. The program provides students the opportunity to examine critically a variety of issues relating to children and education (pre-school to high school) from multiple perspectives: developmental, cognitive, social, and cultural. These issues may be related to the child in the family, the community, or the school environment, and may include areas of concentration in daycare, play and socialization, curriculum and instruction, learning in the content areas, children and technology, exceptionalities, and language development.Students working toward the MA Child Studies collaborate closely with program faculty who are prominent professionals, researchers, as well as active practitioners. These individualized partnerships make the MA Child Studies program a unique and fulfilling experience for all students.Education is a broad and multidisciplinary field that is becoming even more important and exciting as society changes and knowledge diversifies. As an acclaimed centre of innovation and excellence in both teaching and research, Concordia University's Department of Education meets the challenges of the future through its widely recognized degree programs at the undergraduate (BA, BEd) and graduate (Diploma, MA, PhD) levels. Our graduates are highly sought after by school boards, daycares, government, health and social agencies, human resource departments and the business community, as well as other universities and educational institutions.The Department of Education at Concordia offers acclaimed graduate degrees at the diploma level, master's level, and at the doctoral level in four areas of specialization:Graduate studies at Concordia are sustained by an intensive program of faculty research and publication, supported by a healthy level of external funding. We try to offer opportunities to work closely as part of a research team to as many of our graduate students as possible, and through teaching assistantships, some students work closely with professors to further develop their professional skills. The Francis Friedman Resource Center is a space dedicated exclusively to our graduate students, offering them a place to make and call their own.Currently, students may choose one of two options in their pursuit of this degree:See full degree requirements in the Graduate Calendar.Admission Requirements. Applicants will be selected on the basis of past academic records, letters of recommendation, field experience, and the relevance of their proposed research to the areas of specialization of program faculty. To be accepted into the program, a student is required to have an undergraduate degree with a minimum of a B average and a significant concentration in child studies, education, or related discipline. In addition, at least one year of professional experience in the field of child care, education, or related areas is desirable. Bilingualism is an asset, but not a requirement. The equivalence of foreign degrees is assessed by the School of Graduate Studies, and is determined by consideration of the total length of program study (primary through university) as well as the quality and content of post-secondary study and its relevance to this program.Your completed application will include:Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures. All applications must be submitted to the Graduate Admissions Application Centre.*Fall: Late applications may be considered until April 30.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.CoursesThe following courses are offered:Required CoursesThese courses are required of all students and form the foundation for further courses in the program.CHST 600 Advanced Child Development
This course presents an overview of the theories that have helped to shape the field of child development. The impact of various theoretical approaches (e.g., psychoanalytic, cognitive, behavioral, social) is examined by providing perspectives on issues of both historical and contemporary importance.CHST 603 Seminar: Issues in Child Studies
This course provides students with an overview of the field of child studies. Students are introduced to diverse issues through the work of program faculty, invited scholars and student initiatives.CHST 605 Quantitative Methods of Inquiry
This course introduces students to the philosophy, principles, and techniques in quantitative inquiry in the social sciences. Specifically, it focuses on the main quantitative methodologies of inquiry that are necessary for conducting research and interpreting data in child studies. The course covers techniques for addressing quantitative research questions in the field, including gathering, organizing, analyzing, and communicating data. Statistical techniques that are commonly used to address such questions are covered, with appropriate computer software for key methodologies. Laboratory work is provided to give students practical experience with such software.
Note: Students who have received credit for CHST 607 may not take this course for credit.CHST 606 Qualitative Methods of Inquiry
This course introduces students to the philosophy, principles, and approaches in qualitative inquiry in the social sciences. Specifically, it focuses on the main methodologies of inquiry that are necessary for conducting and interpreting qualitative data in child studies. The course covers techniques for addressing qualitative research questions in the field, including gathering, organizing, analyzing, and communicating data. Appropriate methods for the coding and analysis of qualitative data are covered, with laboratory work to support students’ practical experience with qualitative data.
Note: Students who have received credit for CHST 607 may not take this course for credit.CHST 608 Field Observations
Prerequisite: CHST 605 and CHST 606, or equivalent.
This course addresses a range of observational techniques for observing children in their natural environments (e.g., running records, time and event sampling, rating scales). Students learn to use a variety of observational methods, analyze the information, and write reports. Students spend approximately 2-3 hours weekly in an appropriate setting to conduct the observations.
Note: Students who have received credit for CHST 604 may not take this course for credit.Elective CoursesThese courses focus on (a) the child and (b) the wider community. They are offered on a rotating basis with the exception of CHST 630 which is offered every year.CHST 610 Applied Cognition and Learning
This course provides an overview of the ways in which cognition has contributed to the understanding of how children engage in the content of school subjects, such as mathematics, science, literacy and history. Topics include general cognitive processes, such as memory, transfer, metacognition, and expertise, as well as those related to learning in specific content areas. The course examines ways in which theory and empirical findings can and have informed instructional practice.CHST 614 Social Processes
This course addresses issues regarding the development of critical social processes in the life of the child, which have implications for later functioning. Topics include the importance of early emotional development (e.g., attachment, temperament, emotional regulation) for social interaction, peer relations (e.g., friendships, bullying and victimization, prosocial behaviour), the development of self and social understanding, the role of play in development, and gender roles and socialization.CHST 618 Childhood Settings
This course examines a variety of extra-familial settings in which children and families function (e.g. child care, kindergarten, elementary school, after school programs, recreation programs, hospital settings, programs for children with special needs). Various aspects of these programs are examined such as mission statements, program philosophy, training requirements, regulations, and professional development requirements. Methods to evaluate the quality of the settings are presented. Students learn to analyze a specific program of their choosing and write a case study report. Guest lectures and field trips to different types of settings may form part of the course.CHST 620 Children’s Play: From Theory to Practice
This course introduces students to the topic of play with an emphasis on relating theory to practice. Historical and modern theories (e.g., psychoanalytic, cognitive, and social cognitive) of play are discussed. Various definitions and types of play that emanate from theoretical approaches and different approaches to measuring play are covered, as well as the relationship between children’s play and domains of development and culture, and curriculum and teaching. Issues related to designing developmentally appropriate play spaces and materials are examined.CHST 622 The Family
This course addresses major theoretical perspectives on family functioning and the nature of parenting (e.g., transitions to parenting, attachment, child rearing styles, parenting children with special needs) and family relationships (e.g., parent-child, sibling, grandparents). Issues related to the modern Canadian family are also discussed (e.g., single and adolescent parents, divorce and remarriage, parental employment, child care, transition to school, and diversity of family lifestyles).CHST 624 Curriculum Models in Childhood Settings
This course examines principles and models of curriculum in relation to a range of early childhood settings, including daycare, after school programming, kindergarten, and elementary school. The focus is on analyzing current curriculum models from different perspectives as well as identifying and discussing issues related to curriculum design and implementation. Student interests and areas of study are taken into account in the selection of the readings, interactive curriculum materials, and resources.
Note: Students who have received credit for CHST 601 may not take this course for credit.CHST 630 Issues in Education: Language, Literacy, Numeracy, and Scientific Reasoning
In this course, students reflect on specific aspects of cognitive development and their impact on education. Topics are offered on a rotating basis and may include the development of language, literacy, numeracy and/or scientific reasoning. The literature on selected topics is examined, with particular emphasis on both classic and current research.CHST 632 Issues in Inclusive and Special Education
This course examines theoretical issues in inclusive and special education and focuses on educational practices that provide all children with equitable access to learning. Curricula, policies and practices in educational settings are analyzed and provide students with an in-depth understanding so as to meet the needs of diverse learners.CHST 640 Special Topics in Child Studies
Note: Subject matter varies from term to term and from year to year. Students may re-register for this course provided that the course content has changed. Changes in content are indicated by the letter following the course number, e.g., CHST 640A, CHST 640B, etc.Note: For elective course descriptions and further information regarding thesis and internship guidelines, consult the Guide to the MA in Child Studies available from the Department of Education.Directed Study CourseCHST 650 Directed Study
Students may enrol in a directed study under faculty supervision in order to undertake specialized study of theoretical or research-related topics. Permission of the Graduate Program Director is required.Internship OptionCHST 695 Internship Seminar and Field Placement (9 credits)
Prerequisite: CHST 605 and CHST 606, or equivalent.
The internship is designed to provide students with the opportunity to investigate an applied problem or topical issue in child studies. Course requirements include a seminar in both terms. In the first term, students are required to keep a journal, conduct on-site observations, and formulate a written proposal for the internship project. In the second term, students will conduct their project and maintain their journal. Students are required to spend a minimum of 75 hours in the field placement in the first term and an additional 125 hours (minimum) in their second term.CHST 696 Internship Report (9 credits)
The final report is a detailed record of the internship project and includes a description and analysis of all work produced for the field placement. In addition, all instruments, curricular materials, journal entries, and other supporting documents are included in the final report.Thesis OptionCHST 697 Thesis Proposal (3 credits)
Under the supervision of a thesis supervisor, the student writes a proposal presenting a research topic; the overall goal of which is to demonstrate that the student is capable of undertaking an independent research project.CHST 698 Research and Thesis (18 credits)
The thesis consists of the formulation and presentation of the research results which are then defended before a committee consisting of the student’s supervisor and at least two other scholars from the department and/or scholars from relevant disciplines in other departments or institutions.Program faculty are actively involved in research covering such areas as children's social behaviour in daycare settings; children and technology; exceptionalities and inclusive education; children play and socialization; historical perspectives on childcare; curriculum and instruction in the early childhood setting and elementary grades; popular culture of youth and children; physical activity, health, and well-being; gender issues; family and children; international issues in early childhood education; teaching and teacher education; learning and cognition with an emphasis on mathematics, science, and critical thinking; and educational psychology.Email: Nadine@education.concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2034Location: 
 1610 Ste-Catherine Street West, FG 5140
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3H 2S2Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityChild Studies (MA)Why study at Concordia?
                
            
                
					
                    Program options and degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application process
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty research interests
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a master's in child studies?Program DetailsRelated ProgramsMaster of Arts (MA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424