http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/civil-engineering-meng.htmlThe Department of Building, Civil and Environmental Engineering, offers comprehensive programs in building and civil engineering. The aim of these programs is to advance the body of technical knowledge in the planning and design of built facilities, their construction processes, their operation and maintenance, and their interaction with, and impact on, the surrounding environment.The MEng program is course-based program designed to provide students with an opportunity to strengthen, in some specific area or areas, the knowledge gained at the undergraduate level, and to provide a significant introduction to research.OptionsApplicants to the Master of Engineering may apply to the Industrial Experience option in the industrial milieu through the Institute for Co-operative Education.SpecializationsApplicants lacking the appropriate background will be required to enrol in an extended program of specified courses. These courses are in addition to the regular 45-credit program.Requirements for the DegreeAdmission Requirements. Applicants to the MEng Program must hold a bachelor’s degree in engineering or equivalent with high standing. Applicants with a bachelor’s degree in architecture with high engineering content may also be considered for the MEng program. Such students will be required to enrol in an extended program. The Faculty Graduate Studies Committee will determine the acceptability of an applicant for admission to the program and may require an applicant to take specified undergraduate courses in order to qualify for acceptance. Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be required to take such courses in addition to their regular graduate program. Applicants with deficiencies in their undergraduate preparation may be required to take a qualifying program. An ability to write simple programs in a standard computer language will be assumed. Students lacking this skill will be required to register for the appropriate course. This course will be taken in addition to regular degree requirements.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Students must complete 45 credits of 6000 or 7000 level courses. The courses must be selected as follows:A minimum of 21 credits chosen from one of the Course Groups in List B. This set of courses may also include the project and seminar courses ENGR 6991, BCEE 6961 or the industrial training course ENCS 6931.List B: Course Groups in Civil Engineering ProgramGroup 1 - Environmental Engineering and Water Resources:
Topic Areas: E04, E33, E36, E37Group 2 - Geotechnical and Transportation Engineering:
Topic Areas: E03, E34, E35Group 3 - Structural Engineering:
Topic Areas: E06, E31, E32Group 4 - Construction Management:
Topic Areas: E21, E24Research in civil engineering includes specialized areas of structures, bridge engineering, earthquake engineering, geotechnical engineering, transportation engineering, water resources and environmental engineering.Email: Jenny@encs.concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 3205Location: 
 1515 St. Catherine W., EV 6.154
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 2W1Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityCivil Engineering (MEng)Key resourcesDegree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty research interests
                
            
                
					
                    Teaching and research assistantships
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a Master's in civil engineering?Program detailsRelated ProgramsMaster of Engineering (MEng)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424