http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/civil-engineering-masc.htmlThe MASc program is designed to provide students with an opportunity to strengthen, in some specific area or areas, the knowledge gained at the undergraduate level, and to provide a significant introduction to research. Students interested in the course-work masters program should refer to the MEng Programs instead.SpecializationsApplicants lacking the appropriate background will be required to enrol in an extended program of specified courses. These courses are in addition to the regular 45-credit program.Requirements for the Degree Admission Requirements. Applicants to the MASc program should hold a bachelor’s degree in engineering or equivalent with high standing. Consideration will also be given to candidates with a degree in a cognate area with high standing; such students may be required to enrol in an extended program. In particular, applicants with a bachelor’s degree in architecture will be considered for the MASc in Building Engineering. The Faculty Graduate Studies Committee will determine the acceptability of an applicant for admission to the program and may require an applicant to take specified undergraduate courses in order to qualify for acceptance. Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be required to take such courses in addition to their regular graduate program. Applicants with deficiencies in their undergraduate preparation may be required to take a qualifying program. An ability to write simple programs in a standard computer language will be assumed. Students lacking this skill will be required to register for a course prescribed by the Graduate Program Director. This course will be taken in addition to regular degree requirements.Applications for MASc and Ph. programs, once complete, are sent to BCEE Department for review by potential supervisors. This entire process may take up to 8 weeks. To accelerate the process, applicants may wish to contact research faculty in your area in order to express your interests and qualifications. It is recommended that you submit a research dossier that includes:In the event of lack of supervisor, qualified MASc applicants will be notified and offered admission into the MEng Program instead. Applicants who wish to take advantage of this option can send the request to the Graduate Program Director at any time.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Students must complete 45 credits as shown below:
For topic course lists by topic area, please visit the Graduate Calendar.For course descriptions, please visit the Graduate Calendar.Research in civil engineering includes specialized areas of structures, bridge engineering, earthquake engineering, geotechnical engineering, transportation engineering, water resources and environmental engineering.
Email: Jenny@encs.concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 3205Location: 
 1515 St. Catherine W., EV 6.154
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 2W1Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityCivil Engineering (MASc)Key resourcesDegree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty research interests
                
            
                
					
                    Teaching and research assistantships
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a Master's in civil engineering?Program detailsRelated ProgramsMaster of Applied Science (MASc)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424