http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/alumni-friends/about-us/concordia-university-foundation.htmlThe Concordia University Foundation, incorporated in 1991 and operational as of 1996, exists for one purpose: to be the best possible fund management partner for Concordia University. Our partnership flourishes through the generosity of alumni, friends, corporations, foundations and, especially, volunteers and staff members. Our combined efforts help create and foster an environment in which teaching, learning and research positively affect the quality of life in Montreal, Quebec, Canada and the rest of the world.The Foundation plays an important role in ensuring the long-term viability of Concordia’s numerous programs and initiatives. This is accomplished through the ongoing development of the Foundation’s financial resources. While some gifts are used for short-term needs, the investment of gift proceeds for long-term and endowed purposes is essential.Total assets under management include both designated and endowed capital. The largest component of invested assets is the Foundation’s long-term investment pool, which is managed in accordance with the Portfolio Investment Policy established by the Investment Committee.Mr. Howard Davidson, Chair of the Board
Mr. Brian Edwards, Vice-Chair of the Board
Me Bram Freedman, President 
Mr. Patrick Kelley Secretary-Treasurer
Ms. Patricia Saputo, Chair, Audit Committee
Ms. Christine Lengvari
Mr. Andrew Molson
Mr. Richard J. Renaud
Dr. Alan Shepard
Mr. Jeffrey Tory
Mr. Lorne SteinbergMr. Leonard Ellen*
Mr. Ned Goodman
Mr. Ronald Lawless
Dr. William Yip (President, Concordia University Hong Kong Foundation)*deceasedFor further information about the Concordia Foundation, please contact:Ms. Andrea Renaud
Recording Secretary
andrea.renaud@concordia.ca
514-848-2424, ext. 5895.For inquiries about tax receipts or making a donation, please contact:Advancement and Alumni Relations
514-848-2424, ext. 4856  
1-888-777-3330
giving@concordia.ca© Concordia UniversityAdvancement & Alumni Relations, 514-848-2424, ext. 4856Concordia UniversityConcordia University FoundationAlumni & friends
            
                Alumni & friends
            2015-2016 Board of DirectorsAnnual ReportsHonorary directorsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424