http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/students/financial-support/graduate-funding/conference-travel.htmlRegistered graduate students may apply for funds to give presentations at major scholarly conferences, or present at artistic exhibitions in a peer-reviewed or juried context.Canada Graduate Scholarships—Michael Smith Foreign Study Supplements (CGS-MSFSS)
 CGS-MSFSS are available to Canadian citizens or permanent residents who hold a Joseph- Armand Bombardier, Alexander Graham Bell or Frederick Banting and Charles Best Canada Graduate Scholarship (CGS) at the master’s or doctoral level, or a Vanier CGS at the doctoral level. This award supports high-calibre Canadian graduate students in building global linkages and international networks through the pursuit of exceptional research experiences abroad. By accessing international scientific research and training, CGS-MSFSS recipients will contribute to strengthening the potential for collaboration between Canadian universities and affiliated research institutions and universities, or other research institutions outside of Canada. Supplements of up to $6,000 are available to active CGS Master’s, CGS Doctoral or eligible Vanier CGS holders to help offset the costs of undertaking research studies outside Canada for a defined period. Applications are due to the Graduate Awards Office by May 10th for the June 10th Competition and by September 26th for the October 10th Competition.
Conference and Exposition Award - School of Graduate Studies
 The Conference and Exposition Award is intended to encourage graduate students to present their research at a regional, national or international conference or equivalent academic event. Funding will normally range between $250 and $1000. There is no deadline date to submit your application package to the Graduate Awards Office, School of Graduate Studies.
Conference Travel Support – Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science
 Note: MUST apply PRIOR to attending the conference
 It is applicable to non-tenured faculty or 2nd or 3rd Year GSSP-eligible and PhD students only. To be eligible, students must be a GSSP Eligible PhD student in their 2nd and 3rd year. Faculty members must be non-tenured. The maximum allowance is $500 per applicant per fiscal year. The applicant must be presenting a paper (or a poster) at the conference to be eligible. A copy of the conference program or itinerary must be included with this application (for expense reports related to travel airfare, please include boarding passes). For information/assistance with submitting an application for funding, call Josie Frazzetto at the Faculty Budget Office @4185 (EV2.219). Please submit your expense report and original receipts to Caroline Clayton at the Faculty Budget Office @ 5969 (EV2.217).
Fulbright Awards
 The Canada-US Fulbright Program strengthens bi-national collaborative research and promotes thoughtful public debate on topics that reflect the broad range of contemporary issues relevant to Canada, the US and the relationship between the two countries. Awards include: (a) Traditional Fulbright Scholar Awards for scholars and post-docs to conduct research and/or teach at a U.S. University (deadline usually Nov 15). Faculty sabbatical, leave-of-absence of retirement pay may be used concurrently; (b) Canada-U.S. Fulbright Visiting Research Chairs for scholars to conduct research and guest lecture atselect American universities and research centres &for US scholars atselect Canadian universities and research centres (deadline usually Nov 15 for Canadian applicants; summer for US); (c) Senior Specialists Program for leading U.S. scholars with opportunities to collaborate with their professional counterparts in Canada (2 to 6 week stays). Canadian institutions may submit requests throughout the calendar year.Going Global Innovation
 Canadian researchers are eligible to apply for funding to Going Global. Going Global Innovation is designed to promote and enhance Canada's international innovation efforts by supporting Canadian companies and researchers in pursuing international R&D collaborative opportunities through the development of partnerships with key players in other countries/economies. Going Global contributes up to 75%* of eligible expenses which include travel & related costs, and other non-research expenses (meetings/workshops, exhibit participation, pursuit of large-scale projects e.g. EU Framework, development of legal documentation, translation services, and pursuit of financial support). Proposal requests range from $5K to $75K. Applications must be submitted at least 8 weeks prior to commencement of the project. * Total Government Assistance (federal, provincial and municipal) cannot exceed 75%.Partnership Development Seed Grants, Shastri Indo-Canadian Institute, India
 This grant is intended to be a catalyst for scholarly activities which will foster the creation of new knowledge and contribute to formal institutional research agreements or other long-term partnerships. Funds may be used to support a bi-national seminar, conference, scholarly discussions and planning meetings, in Canada or India, that are expected to lead to significant research collaborations with universities or institutes from the other country. The lead applicant must be employed or affiliated with a Shastri member institute (includes UBC). Funding up to $10,000 and duration of 6 months.
 Scholar Travel Subsidy Grants, Shastri Indo-Canadian Institute, India
 These grants will provide up to $1,200 to fund 50% of a Canadian and Indian faculty members travel costs to participate in conferences and academic meetings through travel subsidies. Applicants must be citizens or permanent residents of India or Canada, must have been invited to participate by an academic institution, and be affiliated with or travelling to a Shastri Institute member institution (UBC is a member). Application deadlines are generally mid-summer and early in the year.
Science for Peace and Security – North Atlantic Treaty Organization
 Offers grants for advanced research workshops, study institutes and collaborative linkage (mobility) grants to scientists in NATO, Partner and Mediterranean Dialogue countries to collaborate on priority research topics, which include NATO priorities and additional Partner country priorities. Activities must address key priorities that fall under two broad categories: Defense against terrorism, and Countering other threats to security. Collaborations must be between scientists of NATO countries (e.g. Canada) and scientists in eligible partner countries or Mediterranean Dialogue countries. Applications are submitted electronically and may be submitted at any time of the year, and will be reviewed twice a year. SSHRC Connection Grants Connection Grantssupport events and outreach activities geared toward short-term, targeted knowledge mobilization initiatives. These events and activities represent opportunities to exchange knowledge and to engage on research issues of value to those participating. Events and outreach activities funded by a Connection Grant may often serve as a first step toward more comprehensive and longer-term projects potentially eligible for funding through other SSHRC funding opportunities.
 The MacKenzie King Travelling Scholarship
 There are 2 types of Mackenzie King Scholarships: the “Open” Scholarship and the “Travelling” Scholarship. Both were established to support graduates of Canadian universities who are pursuing graduate studies. Open to graduates of any Canadian university who are pursuing postgraduate (Master’s or Doctoral/PhD) study in either the United States or the United Kingdom in the subject area of international relations or industrial relations (these aspects also included within law, history, politics and economics). This scholarship has previously been awarded to 4 individuals annually ($11,000.00 each), but the number and value could be subject to change. Applications are due to the Graduate Awards Office by February 1.
The Rockefeller Foundation Bellagio Center
The Bellagio Conference program provides space for framing debates on world-class issues, for translating theory into action and for devising creative responses to some of the most pressing issues of our time, especially those directed at alleviating poverty and vulnerability. The selection committee gives priority to meetings that link to the foundation's work in basic survival needs (such as food, water, and housing), global health, climate and environment, urbanization, and social & economic security. Based in New York, the Foundation seeks applications for conferences that align with the Foundation’s mission to expand opportunities for poor or vulnerable people and to help ensure that globalization’s benefits are shared more widely. Two buildings are available which accommodate 19 and 23 participants; room and board is provided without charge for meeting participants. Meetings are typically 3 working days, 2 days also possible, with 1 day reserved before and after for arrivals/departures (4-5 days total). Conference leaders can apply to the Bellagio Fund for a travel grant for participants from developing countries.
Travel Awards – Canadian Cancer Society
 A limited number of Travel Awards to PhD or MD/PhD students and post-doctoral / medical / clinical fellows are available. The purpose of this program is to defray the travel costs associated with making a scientific presentation as a first author or presenter at a conference, symposium or other appropriate professional meeting. There are three competitions per year. It is anticipated that up to 10 travel awards will be awarded in each competition (30 awards per year). 1st competition deadline: January 15th; 2nd competition deadline: May 15th; 3rd competition deadline: September 15th. The application will require details of the conference, applicant CV, presentation details, project summary including the relevance to cancer, budget, along with information regarding your supervisor, who must also provide a letter of support in the system. Specific guidelines for the online application are available.Graduate awards office© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityConference & travelStudent hub
            
                Student hubMore conference & travel funding opportunities:Related linksConnect with usConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424