http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/mba/program-details/option-1/core-courses.htmlThe On Ramp provides students with the essential tools and basic quantitative skills needed to succeed in the MBA Program and must be completed prior to starting the program. The On Ramp is comprised of two modules: fundamental MBA survival skills and quantitative skills. The quantitative skills module reviews and tests the essential quantitative skills needed prior to starting the program. At the end of the On Ramp, students' quantitative skills are assessed via an examination. Unsuccessful students are required to complete COMM 610 in addition to the regular program requirements. COMM 610 must be successfully completed in the first term of the MBA program. This course is evaluated on a pass/fail basis.Prerequisites: MBA 640 or COMM 610 concurrently
This introductory course focuses on management, organizations and society. Students reflect on who managers are and what they do, and understand how their work is vital in all the functions of the organization. Taking a multi-level approach acknowledging the individual, organizational, and societal impacts of business, this course critically explores ethical behavior, corporate responsibility and stakeholder engagement. Students develop a more nuanced understanding of what it means to be a responsible manager and the role of business as a vibrant and important actor in society. The pedagogical method is primarily through case analysis.Students are expected to complete MBA 641 in their first term.Students who have received credit for MBA 691 may not take this course for credit.Prerequisite: MBA 640 or COMM 610 concurrently
This course provides an overview of the corporate external financial reporting system. It examines the role played by management, creditors, investors and auditors. The legal environment for enforcing accounting standards is also studied. As financial reporting helps various decision makers allocate resources to the most profitable and socially responsible ventures, annual reports’ comparability is analyzed under existing International and U.S. reporting standards. The pedagogical approach used in this course is based on lectures, case analyses and the discussion of current professional issues, such as triple bottom line accounting and the detection of accounting fraud.Students who have received credit for MBA 607 may not take this course for credit.Prerequisites: MBA 640 or COMM 610; MBA 641 previously or concurrently
This course emphasizes the development of analytical skills needed to work effectively in a business environment. It introduces the basics of knowledge discovery from big data, business analytics and predictive modeling for data driven decision making and policy formation. Topics include exploratory data analysis, statistical analysis and modeling, forecasting and data visualization. Practical usages of the methodologies are demonstrated via projects and case analysis based on big data from various functional areas of business.Students who have received credit for MBA 608 may not take this course for credit.Prerequisite: MBA 641 previously or concurrently
This course focuses on the strategic role of marketing for firms by cultivating marketing management perspectives and skills. Attention is directed toward demonstrating how a manager can use information in micro and macro environments to develop marketing strategies for consumer value creation that integrate product, pricing, promotion, and distribution in order to obtain and maintain a sustainable competitive advantage. Both online and offline aspects of marketing strategies are incorporated to reflect the current environment. Through the use of lectures, case discussions and application-oriented readings, the requisite mindset is nurtured to facilitate marketing excellence in today's multi-faceted and dynamic business environment.Students who have received credit for MBA 610 may not take this course for credit.Prerequisites: MBA 640 or COMM 610; MBA 641 previously or concurrently
This course applies the principles and methodologies of economics to the analysis of the global economy and its impact on the domestic business landscape. Students learn how domestic and foreign fiscal and monetary policies influence the performance of national economies through the study of macroeconomic factors such as exchange rates, interest rates, inflation and trade barriers. By the end of the course, students have developed a framework that allows them to identify and assess the systemic risks and opportunities facing any organization. Pedagogical methods may include lectures, cases and/or projects.Students who have received credit for MBA 618 may not take this course for credit.Prerequisites: MBA 640 or COMM 610, MBA 642
This course develops the tools and theories necessary for sound financial and risk management decisions. The core concepts of opportunity cost, risk and return are applied to the practical problems facing financial managers in large and small enterprises. Specific topics explored in depth include time value of money, security and option valuation, capital budgeting and cost of capital, liquidity management, corporate governance and performance evaluation. Pedagogical tools including lectures, cases/simulations, discussions and applied research are used to present and critique standard and best practices in financial decision making.Students who have received credit for MBA 614 may not take this course for credit.Prerequisite: MBA 640 or COMM 610; MBA 641
Managing people in today’s organizations requires managers to understand the relationship of and between individual, team, and organizational goals. This course informs students about core concepts that help to explain and predict how people behave in organizations, including discussions of perception, motivation, team dynamics, conflict, stress management, leadership, and change. Students also learn the science behind selected and critical Human Resource Management practices, including how to train and develop employees, and how to evaluate their performance. Through a combination of lectures and activities (e.g. case discussions, experiential exercises, and projects), students develop the interpersonal, communication, and decision-making skills necessary to manage people effectively and ethically in a diverse and fast-paced business context.Students who have received credit for MBA 609 may not take this course for credit.Prerequisite: MBA 640 or COMM 610; MBA 641
Business Process Management plays a central role in achieving competitive advantage in terms of quality, price, customer services and product variety. The focus is on improving the performance of core operations by optimally allocating scarce resources. Managerial and analytical tools are studied in improving business processes. The course covers operational issues such as demand management, resource planning, inventory management and quality management. Through case discussion, analysis and spreadsheet modelling, this course provides a hands-on approach to operations management.Students who have received credit for MBA 616 may not take this course for credit. Prerequisites: MBA 640 or COMM 610; MBA 641, MBA 642
This course focuses on the analytical techniques deployed to assist management in the design, implementation, and monitoring of the organization’s strategy. It also covers techniques, which support the ensuing corrective decision-making. Topics covered include: planning, capital budgeting, master budget, break-even point, differential analysis, product costing, etc. For management control: decentralization systems, transfer pricing, flexible budgets, standard costs and variance analysis, etc. The course uses the case method in both for-profit and not-for-profit organizations.Students who have received credit for MBA 628 may not take this course for credit.Prerequisites: MBA 641, 644, 645, 646
The important issues involved in developing strategy in various business sectors are the focus of the course. Students learn to formulate strategies that clearly state the successful and sustainable path for companies. The course also looks at winning strategies defining how companies can compete against their rivals and cooperate with partners in specific business sectors. Students study strategy implementation and examine how functional strategies can be key instruments for business success. The course also looks at the relationship between strategy, culture and structure of the organization. Pedagogical methods focus primarily on cases and projects.Students who have received credit for MBA 622 may not take this course for credit.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityMBA core coursesJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessMBA 640   On Ramp   (0.0 credits)
                
                    MBA 641   Responsible Manager   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MBA 642   Financial Reporting for Responsible Decision Making   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MBA 643   Managerial Analytics   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MBA 644   Marketing Management   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MBA 645   Economics for Organizational Decision Making   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MBA 646   Financial Management   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MBA 647   Managing People in Organizations   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MBA 648   Business Process Management   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MBA 649   Strategic Managerial Accounting and Control   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MBA 650   Crafting and Implementing Successful Strategies   (3.0 credits)Prerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424