http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/educational-technology-ma.htmlThe MA in Educational Technology appeals to a new breed of educator/trainer. The program provides opportunities for advanced study in the theoretical foundations of educational technology and multimedia and their practical interdisciplinary applications. MA students learn to identify educational and performance problems and apply solutions based in psychology, information and communication technologies, management theory and systems analysis. Their scholarly activities address concerns about learning for all age groups, from childhood to adulthood, in formal and informal contexts. Most graduates find immediate employment, largely in the corporate sector, but increasingly in educational, government and NGO contexts as the digital age expands into all aspects of daily life.MA students develop a program of study best suited to their individual academic, research and professional goals. A thesis or thesis-equivalent option appeals to students who want to conduct research or evaluation studies in the field. A non-thesis internship option is offered for students who wish to develop professional skills.The program offers course themes to assist students in the selection of their elective courses and in the academic focus of their thesis presentation or internship practicum. Each theme has a set of recommended courses designed to impart knowledge about and understanding of learning and instructional theories, methodologies and practical skills. They also address performance issues that call for interventions involving management approaches, job design, tool use and incentive systems. The themes include:The Department of Education in the Faculty of Arts and Science provides responsible and innovative leadership in the development and dissemination of knowledge about education. Education is an extremely broad and diverse field of study. Departmental epistemologies draw from and contribute to other disciplines in the social science and humanities. They recognize the importance of human learning and performance at the individual (child to adult), defined group (local, cultural and corporate), community and national or global levels.The department’s teaching and research programs are situated on the continuum that links early childhood to aging adulthood. They incorporate methodologies that range from ethnographic to design research to controlled experimental methodologies.The department is known nationally and internationally for the exceptional quality of its graduate programs and offers Doctoral, Master’s and diploma level degrees in four disciplines:These programs focus on many different aspects of education, including history, philosophy, child development, second language learning, as well as fundamental theoretical issues, such as cross-cultural approaches to literacy, issues of differences in gender, class and race, critical theory and pedagogy and feminist critical pedagogy.

Faculty members are a diverse group of educators committed to excellence in teaching, research and community service. Their multidisciplinary pedagogical philosophies inform their teaching practices and their scholarly profiles attract a healthy level of external research funding (averaging $2.5 million annual). This funding provides financial support to many qualified graduate students who have the opportunity to work on groundbreaking research projects as research assistants.

Along with its emphasis on the communication of sound pedagogical principles and research approaches, the department values of equality, diversity and non-discrimination. Class sizes are kept purposefully small because faculty believe in careful mentoring and a constructivist approach to learning.

The retention rate of students is exceptionally high. Many students are enrolled on a part-time basis but complete degree requirements in a timely manner. Graduates enjoy high levels of employment in government service and industry.Thesis or Thesis-equivalent for students wishing to conduct field research or evaluation studies, or wish to pursue doctoral studies.As part of the MA program, students taking the thesis or thesis-equivalent option can undertake a supervised field experience that adds a “practicum” aspect to their resumé. This practicum involves such activities as needs analysis, materials design or production, systems analysis and design, research or training. Students then prepare a thesis or thesis-equivalent and oral defence. A thesis-equivalent is the production or evaluation of educational materials designed to achieve specific objectives.Non-thesis Internship for students who wish to develop professional skills in an extended practicum with corporate, school, government or NGO clients.Students taking the non-thesis internship option must perform a supervised 675 hours practicum involving program-related practice with a private or public sector organization. To complete degree requirements, they must then prepare an Internship Report using a case study format that includes a conclusion and recommendations.Admission Requirements. Entry into this program is based on the individual backgrounds of applicants, who should possess a bachelor’s/baccalaureate degree with at least a major or the equivalent in any subject. An average of at least a B in the major or equivalent is required. Students from the Diploma in Instructional Technology (who have not graduated from the Diploma) may apply for admission with advanced standing. A maximum of 15 credits may be transferred. However, no financial credit will be given. An interview may be required.*Fall: Late applications may be considered until April 30.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Email: SGordon@education.concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2030Location: 
 1610 Ste-Catherine Street W., FG 5141
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3H 2S2Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityEducational Technology (MA)Why do your Master's at Concordia?
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty research interests
                
            
                
					
                    Degree options
                
            Option AOption B
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a Master's in educational technology?Program DetailsRelated ProgramsMaster of Arts (MA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424