http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/educational-studies.htmlThe MA in Educational Studies reflects the multidisciplinary nature and evolution of education as an academic, intellectual and professional field of study. It attracts students seeking educational opportunities at an advanced level who wish to develop a comprehensive understanding of the wider field of education.

The MA program offers a multi-faceted approach to the study of issues in education. It recognizes the reality and addresses complexity of lifelong learning as an economic and social necessity. Students are encouraged to investigate how children and adults learn and develop skills at all stages and in all facets of their lives.

MA students develop a program of study best suited to their individual academic, research and professional goals. They choose between a thesis option and an intensive course work option. Both options emphasize experimentation, collaboration and diversity and provide excellent preparation for careers in government service and industry. Students in both options may elect to complete a concentration in adult education.The Department of Education in the Faculty of Arts and Science provides responsible and innovative leadership in the development and dissemination of knowledge about education.

Education is an extremely broad and diverse field of study. Departmental epistemologies draw from and contribute to other disciplines in the social science and humanities. They recognize the importance of human learning and performance at the individual (child to adult), defined group (local, cultural and corporate), community and national or global levels.

The department’s teaching and research programs are situated on the continuum that links early childhood to aging adulthood. They incorporate both ethnographic and controlled experimental methodologies.

The department is known nationally and internationally for the exceptional quality of its graduate programs and offers Doctoral, Master’s and diploma level degrees in four disciplines:The department offers two graduate degrees in the field of educational studies: a Master of Arts (MA) in Educational Studies and a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Education. These programs focus on the history, philosophy, politics and sociology of contemporary education and emphasize the investigation of fundamental theoretical issues, such as:
Faculty members are a diverse group of educators committed to excellence in teaching, research and community service. Their multidisciplinary pedagogical philosophies inform their teaching practices and their scholarly profiles attract a healthy level of external research funding. This funding provides financial support to many qualified graduate students who have the opportunity to work on groundbreaking research projects as research assistants.

Faculty research interests include:In addition to its emphasis on the communication of sound pedagogical principles and research approaches, the department values of equality, diversity and non-discrimination. Class sizes are kept purposefully small because faculty believe in careful mentoring and a constructivist approach to learning.

The retention rate of students is exceptionally high. Many students are enrolled on a part-time basis but complete degree requirements in a timely manner. Graduates enjoy high levels of employment in government service and industry.For students seeking professional development rather than research training.For students seeking in-depth research expertise who may wish to pursue Doctoral studies.Students in Option A and in Option B may complete a Concentration in Adult Education.Admission Requirements. For entry into the program, a first degree with a minimum GPA of 3.00 (B average) is required with an appropriate concentration in a field of study relevant to Educational Studies. The applicant should also have a minimum of two years professional activity in education or an undergraduate record which includes at least three courses in education, each with a grade of B or better. Qualified applicants who fail to meet the criteria outlined may be required to take up to 12 undergraduate credits in addition to the regular graduate program, or, as appropriate, a qualifying program. (See section on Qualifying Students).All applications must be submitted online.*Fall: Late applications may be considered until April 30.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Consult the graduate calendar for a complete list of current courses.Opportunities exist for MA students to work as teaching and research assistants within the department. The selection process is competitive. Preference is given to experienced applicants with an aptitude for the work to be performed.

Students interested in teaching assistantships must complete and submit hard copies of the following forms, along with their curriculum vitae, to the Department/Internship Administrator:Research assistants participate in funded projects and are hired by the individual faculty members conducting the research.Email: SGordon@education.concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2030Location: 
 1610 Ste-Catherine Street W., FG 5141
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3H 2S2Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityEducational Studies (MA)Why do your Master's at Concordia?
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty research interests
                
            
                
					
                    Degree options
                
            Without thesisWith thesis

                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Sample classes
                
            
                
					
                    Assistantships & internships
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a master's in educational studies?Program DetailsRelated ProgramsMaster of Arts (MA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424