http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/mba/program-details/option-1/elective-courses311.htmlThe maximum number of elective courses taken outside JMSB for which students receive credit towards their MBA degree is equivalent of 12 credit-hours. Application for taking courses outside JMSB should be submitted well in advance of course start date, as authorization from the MBA Program Director and School of Graduate Studies, as well as the external Faculty/School is required. Undergraduate courses are not credited towards JMSB graduate degrees. In addition to electives offered within JMSB, students can seek permission from the MBA Program Director to take courses in other graduate faculties at Concordia, including those offered by the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science, the Faculty of Fine Arts and the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. The list below is a selection of possible elective courses in the areas of corporate governance and business ethics, business sustainability and environmental management or community and international development.ECON 658 – Environmental Economics
ECON 623 – Growth and Development
GEOG 630 – Environmental Change and Public Policy
POLI 605 – Environmental Law
HENV 675 – Community Participation in Environmental Conservation
POLI 608 – Globalization and Regional Integration
SOCI 637 – Studies in Governance
AHSC 675 - Introduction to Open Systems Theory 
AHSC 681 - Selected Topics 
AHSC 682 - Selected Topics
WSSR - Workshops on Social Science ResearchIn addition to electives offered within JMSB and Concordia, students can seek permission from the MBA Program Director to take the equivalent of 12 credit-hours of courses at other graduate schools in Montreal, Canada or internationally (study-abroad program).The MBA Community Service Initiative (MBA CSI) encourages and promotes community service and links the resources of the JMSB at Concordia University with the needs of communities, organizations, small businesses, institutions and industries. In this internship, students provide in-depth consulting for credit, primarily in the not-for-profit sector. The two-pronged goal is to create an applied learning experience for students and to provide a useful service to the community. To find out more about the MBA CSI, visit concordia.ca/mbacsi.Students can be selected to be part of the MBA Small Business Consulting Bureau. This bureau handles individual requests and performs consulting work for the community on a fee-paying basis. To find out more about the Concordia SBCB, visit the Beyond the classroom section at concordia.ca/mba.Co-requisite MANA 683•	MBA Case Competition Senior Organizers
Four students are selected to organize and run the yearly John Molson MBA International Case Competition. To find out more about the MBA Case Competition, visit the Beyond the classroom section at concordia.ca/mba.

•	MBA Research Paper
The objective of the research paper is to provide each student with an opportunity to carry out an in-depth investigation of a selected business problem, working on a one-to-one basis with a faculty member. Research papers may concentrate on a specialized area or they may be interdisciplinary in scope. The investigation will normally extend over two terms.

•	Medical Device Innovation – Applied Entrepreneurship
Innovation in medical devices requires creativity, medical knowledge, engineering skill and sound business judgement. The goal of the surgical innovation project is to bring those the three disciplines of medicine, engineering and business together with the goal of moving ideas out of the lab and into the market. The project is a joint endeavour of the Department of Surgery at McGill, ETS and JMSB. If you are interested in learning more about this project, please contact Dr Sandra Betton at betton@jmsb.concordia.ca.
•	MBA Case Competition Executives
This option is available to four students per year who serve as special assistants to the senior organizers. Their responsibilities are to help the organizers in well-defined roles. To find out more about the MBA Case Competition, visit the Beyond the classroom section at concordia.ca/mba.
•	District 3 Start-up – Applied Entrepreneurship Program
The District 3 start-up program (http://d3center.ca/) is an opportunity to apply everything you have learned to move a concept from idea to product market fit in one semester. It is tough and challenging, but, if you are an entrepreneur at heart, a lot of fun and an exciting opportunity.
In order to compete in the John Molson MBA International Case Competition, students must enroll in Strategies in Action: Case Competition course offered in the fall semester of each year. This management elective, with a maximum enrollment of ten students, is focused on simulating the strategic management decision making process within the classroom. Through intensive case analysis and presentations, students will learn to apply theoretical and practical ideas to real situations in a "pressure" environment. Each class will consist of three hours of preparation time, followed by one hour of presentations, and one hour of debriefing. Student evaluations will be based solely on these in-class exercises.   In addition, this course will be used to select participants to represent the John Molson School of Business at the International MBA Case Competition, held in January of each year. To fulfill this objective, the students who are selected to form the team are required to be available over the winter break in order to prepare for the event.  Interested students should submit a copy of their resume and a letter of intent (explaining their reason for taking the course) to the MBA Program Director by mid-March. A try-out session consisting of a case analysis will take place after the application deadline.   In terms of the application process, every MBA student regardless of background and time in the program is permitted to apply for consideration. Education, academic performance, work experience and additional background are considered. Students who are most qualified based on these criteria are selected.  © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityMBA external electives & experiential learning optionsJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessElective courses at other Concordia University Faculties
                
            
                
					
                    Elective courses at other Graduate Schools
                
            
                    MBA 695I   JMSB / MBA Community Service Initiative   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MBA 695J   Small Business Consulting Bureau   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MBA 631   MBA Case Competition Organizers / MBA Research Paper/ Medical Device Innovation    (6.0 credits)
                
                    MBA 632   MBA Case Competition Executives / District 3 Start-up Program    (3.0 credits)
                
                    MANA 691   Strategies in Action (Case Competition)   (3.0 credits)MBA: Experiential Learning OpportunitiesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424