http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/mba/program-details/option-1/elective-courses2.htmlPrerequisite: MBA 609  This seminar will involve the examination of a variety of topics related to the art and science of new enterprise development and small business management. Some of the topics to be developed include, the role of the entrepreneur, lifestyle and entrepreneurial careers, entrepreneurial self-evaluation, writing a business plan for a new venture, recognizing and evaluating new venture potential, securing venture capital, common problems and pitfalls for new enterprises, etc. This course will be primarily case discussion and project oriented. Speakers and possibly field trips will be incorporated when feasible/desirable.In order to compete in the John Molson MBA International Case Competition, students must enroll in Strategies in Action: Case Competition course offered in the fall semester of each year. This management elective, with a maximum enrollment of ten students, is focused on simulating the strategic management decision making process within the classroom. Through intensive case analysis and presentations, students will learn to apply theoretical and practical ideas to real situations in a "pressure" environment. Each class will consist of three hours of preparation time, followed by one hour of presentations, and one hour of debriefing. Student evaluations will be based solely on these in-class exercises.   In addition, this course will be used to select participants to represent the John Molson School of Business at the International MBA Case Competition, held in January of each year. To fulfill this objective, the students who are selected to form the team are required to be available over the winter break in order to prepare for the event.  Interested students should submit a copy of their resume and a letter of intent (explaining their reason for taking the course) to the MBA Program Director by mid-March. A try-out session consisting of a case analysis will take place after the application deadline.   In terms of the application process, every MBA student regardless of background and time in the program is permitted to apply for consideration. Education, academic performance, work experience and additional background are considered. Students who are most qualified based on these criteria are selected.  Enhance your leadership style and ability to work in a team environment. Through use of case studies and current readings, this course is designed to provide a concentrated look at the successes and failures of teamwork and leadership in organizations. Students will experience first hand the challenges of being a leader and a team member through class exercises and assignments. This class will involve interactive discussions on the design and implementation of work teams and on leadership styles and techniques in contemporary organizations.Prerequisite: MBA 609  This course, which is designed as a general management course, examines issues affecting firms operating in advanced technology markets. The central theme of the seminar is that these firms have specific needs and unique operating characteristics which need to be addressed if they are to compete successfully.  The topics in this course will cover four main areas: the nature of technological change, the commercialization of innovations, the managerial practices of advanced technology firms, and the strategic management of technology. While this course will deal primarily with firms operating in advanced technology sectors, it will also cover basic management of technology issues which impact on most organizations. A combination of lectures, cases, readings and student presentations will be used to develop the key concepts of this course. Students will be evaluated on the basis of case submissions, a term paper, a class presentation, and contribution to class discussions. Prerequisite: MBA 609  This seminar concerns facilitating and managing change in organizations. Students will acquire an understanding of change processes, considerable knowledge and some skills about organizational diagnosis, action planning and consultancy. Organizational development (OD) is an applied field of behavioural science aimed at helping managers and other organization stakeholders to better understand how the organization is functioning. It goes an important step further, however, in that it helps the organization to effectively address human needs in the organizational context, improve productivity, and respond to the challenge of the turbulent environment. OD stems from a rich base of theory and offers multiple applications and techniques. Its value goes beyond the boundaries of specific programs or functions: it integrates more traditional organizational functions in a holistic and complementary way. Both external OD consultants and internal organizational facilitators/change agents play important roles in using OD methods to manage organizational changes and crises and will be examined in this seminar. Experiential learning, case analysis, and role playing will be a large part of this seminar.Prerequisite: MBA 609  This course is designed to be an upper-level course in Management focusing on the management consulting profession and process. The course is structured around three parallel streams and provides important concepts and ideas for the tool-kit of the management consultant involved in analytical as well as change implementation projects. The first stream of the course examines the consulting process, i.e. the five phases of a consulting project from entry to termination. The second stream focuses on core consulting skills, i.e. the skills required to succeed as a management consultant. The third stream is a real world consulting project that students conduct in teams with a client firm in order to apply the tools and skills discussed in class in practice. The course concludes by reflecting on the role of internal consultants and management consulting as a career choice. Globalization has created a very complex competitive landscape and a proliferation of new business configuration for firms, particularly, multinational corporations (MNCs). What does this new business environment really mean for managers of MNCs as they formulate and implement their strategies? How can we effectively analyze this hyper-competitive structure of global industries and translate that analysis into winning strategies? This course is designed to immerse you in these kinds of challenges faced by MNC managers. It is organized around several themes such as reasons for going global; the global and local institutional environments of MNCs; global competitiveness and local responsiveness; managing global ethics and social responsibilities; international negotiations; global competitive advantages; international, cooperative, and entry strategies of MNCs; international joint ventures and their management structures; organizational design and international HRM of MNCs; and global governance and control mechanisms. Through a combination of case discussion, readings, lectures, and role play simulations this course will develop student's ability to understand and pursue managerial actions that is responsive to the evolving global business environment, and to the often-conflicting demands of multiple stakeholders such as local and overseas employees, customers, joint venture partners, governments, and non-governmental organizations.Prerequisite: MBA 609 It is now widely recognized that in an increasingly service oriented and dynamic, competitive business environment, people are the prime source of a company’s competitive advantage. The senior human resources manager in a company is now a key participant on the company’s strategic planning committee. He/she will help frame both the possibilities and the boundaries of the company’s strategic initiatives.  This course, however, will provide you, a manager within the company, with detailed insight into the conceptual, analytical and practical tools that are needed to effectively recruit, motivate, develop, reward and retain the organization’s key asset, its employees. The culture that is created by a company’s managers in effectively deploying the above human resources tools enables the employer to become an “employer of choice”. Topics covered include job analysis, recruitment and selection, training and development, performance management, compensation and benefits, health and safety, employee rights and discipline, as well as labour relations management. Learning is achieved through lecture/discussion, exercises and cases, videos and guest lecturers; lectures are highly interactive. The group project will be based on a real company’s operations, thus accentuating the need for practical and realistic solutions to its business issues.Prerequisite: MBA 606, MBA 607, MBA 608, MBA 609 and MBA 610 This joint course between The John Molson MBA and the University of Vermont MBA is both unique and innovative, giving the opportunity for students from both universities to test their decision-making skills in a context that is close to the reality of contemporary international business. In this integrative course, led by two professors, mixed teams of John Molson MBA and UVM MBA students will apply their management knowledge acquired in their respective programs to formulate recommendations to the senior management teams of a Canadian and a U.S. company, both of which are facing strategic international business issues. Students will use a strategic management framework enabling them to tackle "real live" cases based on detailed and thorough analyses of the global environment in which the two firms operate, as well a detailed assessment of their portfolio of organizational resources and capabilities.  The course is divided into two parts. A principal objective of this first part of the course is to enhance the student's ability to make strategy decision in an international business context, through class discussions and lecture. The course will begin with two three-hours sessions on each campus, where the JMSB and University of Vermont professor will (1) introduce the challenges faced by companies conducting business in a global economy and (2) present the theories and techniques which the students will rely on to analyze the live case and formulate recommendations.  The second part of the course will be modeled on The John Molson MBA International Case Competition and will involve two two-day sessions on each campus. Joint Canadian and American teams of four members will be formed and, two weeks before each live case competition, each team will receive a reading pack containing a general presentation of the company and its industrial sector. On the first morning of the two-day session, members of the senior management team of the local company studied will present to the class the international business strategic issues that their company is facing. Further documentation may then be distributed to the teams. The competing teams will then have until the next morning to analyze the live case, formulate their recommendations, prepare a power point presentation, and a brief written report. Each team will make a public presentation on the second day in front of the jury composed of the two professors, as well as the members of the company's senior management team. The name of the winning team will be divulged at the end of the day.Litigation is expensive and more than just in terms of damage awards, settlement costs or attorneys' fees. Litigation consumes irreplaceable resources such as staff time loss of focus and harm to the public image – in the media, among customers, industry members, stock regulators and analysts. A company may even lose the commercial benefit of sensitive trade secrets by having to supply undertakings made in depositions or filing evidence in affidavits. The sooner a company resolves litigation, the better for the company.  The litigation manager has to know how to inform himself/herself, when to ask questions and which questions to ask. The course will give students a structure to ask the right questions and make informed choices and thereby better instruct the litigation counsel to lead the company out of problems and back to business. The course will identify key types of litigation and critical stages of each. We will flag traps where procedure may overwhelm a company's strategy, resources or interests. Topics would include choice of jurisdiction (administrative tribunal, court), type of recourse (injunction, motion, trial, arbitration), discuss retainer/engagements letters, document management software, disclosure issues raised in examinations before trial (including undertakings, confidentially, privilege, trade secrets, intellectual property), the preparation for trial and the use of experts. All items will be reviewed in terms of their impact on the company in cash, time, distraction or the media.This course is designed to develop your understanding of, and skills in, leading and motivating others. Implications for the design of incentive systems and leader development will be addressed. Classes will integrate interactive discussions of cutting-edge readings with applications of the knowledge through hands-on exercises, cases, and simulations.Corporate governance has emerged as a global business issue in the past 5 years. The objective of this course is to instill the knowledge and key skills necessary for graduate business students to understand the fundamental principles of governance; to be familiar with the laws and regulations in Canada, the US and globally, that exist to build a framework for corporate governance; and to be able to apply ethical and governance principles to practical situations as they arise in their work experience. The first part of the course will focus on understanding the changing roles and inter-relationships of boards, management and stakeholders in various organizational settings. The second part of the course will develop skills in such areas as evaluating board committees, developing effective mandates, and managing change in the governance framework.  Family businesses are the predominant form of business in the world. Almost 80% of new ventures are born as family firms and over 65% of all Canadian firms are family firms. In these firms, family members significantly influence the business including its creation, continuity, mode and extent of growth, and exit. This course aims to prepare students to work effectively and professionally in and with family firms, to launch and create cross generational wealth in family firms. Students will learn about the significance, diversity, and complexity of family firms; develop an understanding of the distinct advantages and unique challenges of these firms; and enhance their business skills to address issues or problems faced by these firms.Prerequisite: MBA 609  Developing Interpersonal and Managerial Skills is designed to further develop core competencies required by MBA graduates. The course will be structured as a series of seminars. The specific competencies to be addressed will be based upon the needs of the students and will be determined in the first session of the course. The competencies shall draw upon the following: Team Development, Conflict Resolution, Presentation Techniques, Time Management, Negotiations, Creative Thinking, Delegating, Coaching, Goal Setting, Supportive Communications and Interviewing. The course builds upon the research in each of the areas included. However, the course is designed to increase skills and competencies. It is a practical and application oriented course and not research or theoretically focused. This is a highly experientially based course, requiring considerable interaction and participation.Global Climate Change is the foremost economic and social challenge facing humanity in the 21st Century. This course examines the climate change phenomenon and the business opportunities and threats it poses. These include opportunities in renewable energy, and clean and green technologies, as well as risks imposed carbon accumulation, pollution and waste. It offers a new perspective for companies to operate in the emerging carbon-constrained economies that will require businesses to move towards ecologically, socially and economically sustainable products, services, and operations.This course explores how businesses can create competitive advantage through embracing issues of environmental and social sustainability into their core business strategies. Though these issues have gained prominence in recent years, many firms are still ill-equipped to successfully address these issues in their own business. Thus, this course focuses on developing your understanding of the opportunities around sustainability, and what you can do to develop sustainable action in your companies. In particular, the specific objectives of this course include: Developing an understanding and appreciation of the complex interaction of economic, regulatory, technological, and social factors that shape how businesses react and respond to sustainability. Applying concepts from our readings, discussions, and cases to organizations to analyze and improve their own actions from a sustainability perspective. Analyzing and developing effective strategies for gaining competitive advantage through sustainable action. Developing an individual perspective on how these issues impact as you engage in your personal and professional lives.Prerequisite: MBA 609  This course will provide a basic understanding of the planning process in developing sport, arts and cultural facilities. Studied are the major functions of resource planning, principles, terminology and standards for facilities using the specialized techniques related to these facilities. The course will examine in detail the central tenets or organizational and management theory and how it applies to sport, arts and cultural facilities.  This course will deal with organizational and human resource theories and their relation to these facilities. Moreover, this course will give students a brief overview of the role that economics, financial management, marketing and fund raising play in the continual development of skilled managers interested in sport, arts and cultural facilities.Students who have taken GDIA/GDSA 652 cannot take this course for credit© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityMBA Management elective coursesJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessMANA 683   Entrepreneurship and Small Business   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MANA 691   Strategies in Action (Case Competition)   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MANA 695A   Leadership and Teamwork   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MANA 695B   Management of Technology   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MANA 695C   Management of Change   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MANA 695E   Introduction to Management Consulting   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MANA 695G   Seminar in Global Competition and International Strategies of MNCs   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MANA 695H   Human Resource Management   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MANA 695I   International Business Live Case Analysis   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MANA 695L   Litigation Management   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MANA 695M   Leadership and Motivation in Action   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MANA 695O   Corporate Governance   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MANA 695P   Seminar in Special Topics - Entrepreneurial Family Business   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MANA 695S   Developing Interpersonal and Managerial Skills   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MANA 695T   Global Climate Change: Business Opportunities and Threats   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MANA 695U   Sustainable Business Strategy   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MANA 695V   Event Management   (3.0 credits)Prerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424