http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/mba/program-details/option-1/elective-courses1.htmlPrerequisite: MBA 614  This course focuses on the financial theory of the firm and examines the Modigliani-Miller propositions, agency theory, and asymmetric information theory. Topics covered include capital structure and the cost of capital, investment and financing decisions, real options, valuation and issuance of new securities including initial public offerings, financial distress and bankruptcy resolution, and corporate governance issues. The course emphasizes both theoretical and empirical developments in corporate finance. Prerequisite MBA 614  This course prepares you to manage the complexities and opportunities of international markets. The main topics covered in this course are: determinants of exchange rates, management of foreign exchange risk, use of foreign currency derivatives, and international capital markets. In addition, we address some issues concerning international portfolio diversification, project financing, and privatization. The emphasis of this course is on learning how to solve problems and meet challenges of international markets. Students will solve a number of cases and learn necessary theory for solving international finance problems. We will also rely on a number of hands-on exercises on computer to understand international finance. Students' participation in the classes is required. This course is designed for students in various finance or international business concentrations.Prerequisite: MBA 614  A study of the theory and practice of diversification, the capital market pricing theory, and portfolio management techniques.Prerequisite: MBA 614  The major objective of this course is to address the use of derivatives in risk management. Importers, exporters, multinational corporations and borrowers or cash investors face risk and commodity price risk. These risks may be managed by options, futures and other derivatives. An understanding of how to manage risk by using derivatives requires an understanding of the theoretical and empirical foundations underlying these capital market instruments. We will rigorously examine the institutional characteristics of options and futures markets, valuation models for these instruments as well as their use in speculation, arbitrage and hedging. Further, we will examine business studies, which emphasize the practical applications of over-the-counter and exchange-traded foreign currency options, currency swaps, index futures contracts and participating forwards in risk management.Prerequisite: FINA 685  This course focuses on advanced topics in the area of derivatives. Topics covered include the valuation of derivatives using numerical procedures and martingales, modeling the term structure of interest rates, valuation of interest rate swaps, interest rate options, caps, floors, swaptions and exotic options, and application of derivatives in risk management such as value at risk models, estimation of volatility and credit risk derivatives. Factors that affect corporate risk management practices and the impact of such practices on corporate investment and financing decisions will also be explored..This course deals with the central issues in real estate finance and investment. Students will be introduced to basic topics such as the organization of real estate markets, pricing, inflation, taxation, valuation methods, brokerage, ownership forms, and real estate law. In addition, students will conduct a project feasibility study based on the investment and financing criteria. Students will evaluate a project and calculate the payback period, discounted payback period, net present value, and internal rate of return, profitability index and discount rate.Prerequisite: MBA 614Prerequisite: MBA 614  This course explores today's financial reality by visiting the factors that contribute to the formation of economic bubbles and the economic crises that follow. A historic review of past bubbles and ensuing crises will reveal the key factors present in all such events. Students will learn the how and why it has happened in the past which will set the ground for reviewing the current state of the USA economy and the global impact of the sub-prime mortgage meltdown.  Specifically, the subject matter is analyzed using very timely data provided for in articles and academic papers addressing ABCP's & CDO's, the failure of Bear Stearns and Countrywide Financial, rescue efforts of the FED and other Central Banks. The existence of household credit growth and a high propensity to consume as a predictor of banking crises will be examined. We will determine whether the rapid expansion in the supply of mortgages driven by disintermediation can explain a large fraction of recent U.S. house price appreciation and subsequent mortgage defaults. Additionally, whether the US Federal Reserve's $1 Trillion (and growing) in financial backing was the best strategy, will be analyzed. Students will finally investigate the impact of moral hazard on behalf of originators selling mortgages.Prerequisite: MBA 614  Merger and acquisition activity is evaluated from the perspective of finance. Basic financial theory, agency theory and empirical evidence provides the tools to critically examine such issues as deal valuation; acquisition strategies; bidding strategies; defensive strategies; financing strategies; the legal and political environment; corporate governance. In addition, going private transactions such as leverage buyouts and management buyouts will also be considered. Prerequisite: MBA 614  The objective of this course is to provide participants with a practical framework for constructing sound investment processes, identifying tactical and structural market opportunities, and managing directional and relative positions. Topics covered include market microstructure, fundamental and technical analyses, trading systems, money and risk management, and trading strategies using equities, futures and options. To bridge the gap between theory and practice, the formal lectures are accompanied by a combination of topic workshops, software training and supervised paper-trading. The learning method also includes a group hedge fund strategy project, which provides participants with the opportunity to assume responsibilities of managing and pitching a sizable portfolio, gain knowledge about popular hedge fund strategies and trade a wide range of marketable securities. Leading buy-side and sell-side professionals are invited to share experiences and discuss current investment themes.Prerequisite: MBA 614  The objective of this course is to provide students with awareness, deeper understanding, and sensitivity of global issues that may influence our world as well as business environment over the next decade or two. A better and more descriptive title for this course would be "what you should grasp about the economics of global issues if you want to be a successful business leader in the future." We will discuss some of the economic challenges and problems that the global community faces at the present time order to understand why these issues and problems are important, who is affected by these problems, alternatives to address them, and why a business manager should be aware of, and involved in, the discussion of these issues.Prerequisite: MBA 614  Students will learn and understand the issues facing Financial Institutions today. The first part of the course will explore the notion of "Canada without banks…" Following successive acts of deregulation, Canadian banks are a model of the "Universal Banking Model" that integrates what was formerly known as the 4 pillars of Financial Institutions: Banking, Trust Activities, Insurance and Investment Banking. Canada, alongside other nations with a universal banking model, doesn't have banks operating in its jurisdictions per se. It has instead, complex organizations facing unique risks and opportunities. Students will have a solid understanding after the 1st part of the course, of the most critical issues affecting Canadian FI's.  We then travel around the world, with emphasize on China, Mexico, Japan, Latin America and the United States (perhaps a pit stop in Russia if time permits) to explore the issues affecting FI's in these countries. While we will continue to emphasize the management and risks affecting FI's internationally, we will also come to learn about the socio-economic, political and cultural impacts on these organizations doing business on multinational fronts. Case studies figure prominently.Prerequisite: MBA 614  Getting your message across to investors and analysts, while staying out of trouble with regulators and profiting from effective financial and business media coverage. This course will help students reach out to industries andor sectors of their personal career interest. Guest speakers will be from industry and the marketplace. Term papers will require field work with them, or those in similar positions and their colleagues. Every MBA student worth their salt is planning for the day when their IPO or option's offer shapes their schedule. This course explains how and why the market reacts to the news that will make or break that IPO or options deal. Students might also keep in mind that the investor relations portfolio is increasingly becoming a high profile executive office finance position.   This course focuses on the practical aspects of investor relations. The guest speakers will be those who do it. They will be IR VPs, venture capitalists who have gone forward with an IPO, sell and buy side analysts, fund managers, a TSX regulator and those that write for the financial media. The text: Using Investor Relations to Maximize Equity Valuation is a thorough, up to date and concise text written by Chad Jacobs and Thomas Ryan. They are MBAs who have dedicated their professional lives to building successful IR programs in the US and Asia through their agency ICR. The course is given by John Graham a founding partner of Investor Relations International based in Montreal and New York, he has been active in agency and corporate investor relations as well as the international financial media for over twenty years.Prerequisite: MBA 614  This course is designed to further develop the understanding and application of analytical tools in corporate finance and is intended to enhance students´ confidence, skills and sophistication in applying these tools to more realistic case study problems. The case study assignments will improve your use of accounting and other economic data to evaluate assets and corporations and to make corporate financial decisions. The course consists of approximately 50% lectures and 50% cases. Lectures in the first half of the course will cover capital structure, dividend/payout policy, corporate valuation, risk management and advanced M&A. Class sessions in the second half will case work: class discussion, case presentations and rebuttals as well as summaries from the instructor. To register for this elective, please contact Deborah Wright by email at deborahw@jmsb.concordia.ca.Prerequisite: MBA 614  The asymmetry of information between the manager and owners of the modern corporation is the focus of this course. The course examines different strategies for reducing the asymmetry from both the academic and applied perspectives. The course will include an examination of disclosure, both voluntary and mandated; the purpose, consequences and value of disclosure; the regulatory environment in North America and abroad and other relevant topics; through both academic research and current cases. Students will be assessed on the basis of class participation, one individual assignment and one group project. To register for this elective, please contact Deborah Wright by email at deborahw@jmsb.concordia.ca.Prerequisite: MBA 614  The tenet "Rational agents in an efficient market" does not exhaustively describe or define the behaviour of financial markets. Behavioural Finance is observed at two levels: Individual and Corporate. The course will expose: 1) how investor behaviour impacts the asset allocation process & portfolio returns 2) how managers or the Board of Directors affect the wealth of shareholders as a result of biases. Course material will be chosen so to expose common investor biases (individual) and demonstrate how this aggregation manifests itself at large (systemic). Additionally, common business finance topics such as Capital Budgeting, Raising Capital/Debt, Dividend Policy that are rendered less than efficient due to biases will be explored. Classes include many behavioural exercises intended to showcase the most prominent financial biases that interfere with "Rational" Finance. The purpose of this course is to use Modern Portfolio Theory to demystify the subject, and to show how International investing generally, and Emerging Market investing specifically, can enhance portfolio returns. We will look at a number of markets in terms of structure, access, and underlying fundamentals, with groups of students each presenting a country to the class, so that by the end, we can see what unites these markets, and what separates them, enabling the student to form a view on what they are worth.Private equity is a broad term that pertains to an equity investment in an asset that is not tradable on the stock market. This relates specifically to the way funds are raised to finance firms of all sizes and in different industries. Private equity can also be specifically related to venture capital where the provision of funds can be designed for growth financing, buyout, and mezzanine financing. This course will specifically focus on the venture capital part of private equity, where the focus is on the growing Small-Medium Sized Enterprise.The objective of the course is to present the different characteristics of Emerging markets in order to enable students to critically evaluate the risks and opportunities inherent in these markets. The student will understand the impact of countries integration and the financial/macroeconomic equilibriums in Emerging Markets. The student will study the different key factors that would allow her to make investment decisions in Emerging Markets and how these factors differ between different emerging markets and between emerging and developed markets.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityMBA Finance elective coursesJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessFINA 663   Seminar in Corporate Finance   (3.0 credits)
                
                    FINA 682   International Financial Management   (3.0 credits)
                
                    FINA 683   Seminar in Portfolio Management   (3.0 credits)
                
                    FINA 685   Options and Futures   (3.0 credits)
                
                    FINA 687   Derivatives and Risk Management   (3.0 credits)
                
                    FINA 691   Seminar in Real Estate Finance   (3.0 credits)
                
                    FINA 695B   Financial Crisis and Global Bubbles   (3.0 credits)
                
                    FINA 695E   Seminar in Mergers and Acquisitions   (3.0 credits)
                
                    FINA 695F   Financial Markets and Trading   (3.0 credits)
                
                    FINA 695G   Global Economic Issues   (3.0 credits)
                
                    FINA 695H   Canadian Perspective in Global Banking   (3.0 credits)
                
                    FINA 695I   Investor Relations   (3.0 credits)
                
                    FINA 695L   Special Topics - Cases in Finance   (3.0 credits)
                
                    FINA 695M   Managing Asymmetric Information   (3.0 credits)
                
                    FINA 695N   Behavioural Finance   (3.0 credits)
                
                    FINA 695Q   International Investing and Portfolio Management   (3.0 credits)
                
                    FINA 695V   Venture Capital   (3.0 credits)
                
                    FINA 695Z   Globalization and Emerging Markets   (3.0 credits)Prerequisites & notesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424