http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/mba/program-details/option-1/elective-courses31.htmlPrerequisite: MBA 615 This course gives a fast-track approach to managing projects, with an emphasis on information technology projects and covers the essential steps in setting up project plans, scheduling, monitoring progress and exercising control to achieve desired project results. It incorporates the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK) of the Project Management Institute, to provide an important base of knowledge that builds a foundation for information technology project management.This course covers the strategic, operational and functional aspects of managing information technology from a corporate standpoint. Corporate IT management offers guidelines when making decisions related to IT planning and investments. Students will be exposed to topics such as IT governance, strategic alignment of IT, risk management and business continuity, key decisions related to IT architecture, IT infrastructure, business application needs, IT investment and prioritization. A variety of approaches such as lectures, readings and case analysis will be used in the course to expose students to the major issues related to corporate IT management.Co-requisite: MBA 615  A large company that was going to be bought by another company verified its true value and decided on their walk away value. After several weeks of negotiation with they buyer the company was bought for 80% more, than they would accept. Another company went bankrupt because neither the union nor the company were able to break the impasse. These are just two of many examples showing that even professional negotiators not only may achieve inefficient deals but they also fail. This course will help students better understand themselves as negotiators, the problem and their negotiation counterparts. It will prepare students to prepare for and engage in commercial and noncommercial negotiations. The course presents three complementary perspectives on negotiation; behavioural, analytical and technological.Prerequisite: MBA 608 This course focuses on the theory and applications of the most widely used methods of forecasting including decomposition methods, exponential smoothing, and the Box-Jenkins techniques for non-seasonal and seasonal data modeling. Recent approaches in forecasting such as artificial neural networks and data mining are also introduced. Business and economic databases are analyzed using statistical software packages in both class and project assignments.Organizations all around the world are discovering that managing and controlling  quality is more than avoiding waste to decrease costs, more than satisfying  customers, more than increasing market share, more than being quick to  market or being flexible. It is all of these together and more. The goal is to  survive in an organization.   This course will explore the various initiatives that make up the quality  movement. The course will focus on the different issues involved in quality  endeavors, including: strategic support and leadership that is required for quality  improvement, human resource implications for change, cultural and  organizational development, technological support, and measuring and auditing  for quality control. In short, we will suggest that total quality management is not  only not a fad but is an essential management philosophy, one that focuses on  managing for organizational excellence. Specific learning objectives include: to  gain an overview of the different practices in the quality movement; to develop an  appreciation for the essential principles that define these 7 quality initiatives; to  get a sense for using quantitative analysis for quality decisions.The course covers essential ideas and techniques for extracting information from large amounts of data. The data mining tools introduced are popular in business intelligence with their uses propelled by an expanding knowledge-based economy and the decreasing cost and availability of automatic data capture mechanisms. The course discusses both supervised and unsupervised methods, and covers topics such as dimension reduction, multiple regression, logistic regression, discriminant analysis, classification and regression trees, neural networks, association rules, cluster analysis and multidimensional scaling. Illustrations of the concepts and methods will be given, and students will gain practical experience in data mining with the uses of popular data mining software. Prerequisites: MBA 608Electronic procurement is one strategy that is becoming increasingly more critical to the operations of all services and industries in both the public and private sectors, playing a vital role in the continuing drive to achieve value for investment. E-procurement is revolutionizing the way firms purchase materials worldwide. Firms are discovering that the more they can integrate an e-procurement system directly into their supply chain, the more they reduce costs and improve process. Saving a dollar through smart purchasing saves ten to fifteen dollars needed in revenue. The traditional manual processes for purchasing (telephone, fax, and traditional EDI) can't consistently produce the level of service needed to optimize sourcing processes. In today's economic climate, business success depends on the ability of a firm's IT infrastructure to support the organization's business goals. Web-enabled business-to-business (B2B) trading and transaction systems allow firms to negotiate lower costs for goods and services from suppliers and, at the same time, reduce transaction and administration costs. Consequently, the firm might more easily monitor, control - and reduce - spend, while improving productivity and competitive advantage.Prerequisite: MBA 616 or equivalent
The ultimate objective of any firm is to make and deliver the right product to the right customer at the right time and at the right price. All the above events require the cooperation of all the major stakeholders, inside and outside the organization, who contribute in realizing the product. Supply Chain Management is the coordinated management of functions within and across firms. The intra-firm coordination could be at the strategic level (eg. facility location, technology adoption, outsourcing, and distribution network design) or at the operational level (eg. scheduling, routing, and demand management). The course covers topics such as network design, aggregate planning, planning supply and demand, sourcing decisions, coordination and risk management. Case studies and simulation game are used to highlight implementation aspects of various supply chain issues tackled in real business settings.The key objective is to equip students with knowledge and basic skills required to conduct and manage negotiation processes. It is based on the following premise: Everybody negotiates but managers and professionals should know how to manage conflict and how to negotiate effectively. The theories to be covered include rational models of bargaining behavior that have been developed in economics and decision sciences and cognitive and behavioral theories that investigate how bargaining behavior may diverge from the predictions of the national models. Develop bargaining skills and apply the theoretical concepts in a variety of negotiating exercises and cases.The course covers the theory, tools and techniques associated with the management of projects, including the use of project management software. The topics cover fundamentals of project management such as project organizing, planning, monitoring, and controlling. The course introduces relevant cases in supply chain operations management, management information systems, and other business contexts to illustrate essential steps in setting up project plans, scheduling work, monitoring progress, and exercising control to achieve desired results. The course integrates the Project Management Body of Knowledge in line with the Project Management Institute's certification requirements.This course presents the principles and techniques of widely used statistical software, such as the SAS System, for data management (information storage and retrieval), data modification, file handling, and statistical analysis and reporting. It will focus on data manipulation, in particular, data cleaning techniques, combining and updating multiple databases, formatting tools and libraries, data presentation such as plotting and charting including maps, table creation and reporting, SQL, macros and interfaces for data importing and exporting.Co-requisite: MBA 608© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityMBA Supply Chain & Business Technology Management elective coursesJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessDESC 660   Seminar in Special Topics: Project Management   (3.0 credits)
                
                    DESC 663   Corporate Information Systems Management   (3.0 credits)
                
                    Desc 664   Negotiation and E-Neg Management Support   (3.0 credits)
                
                    DESC 677   Seminar in Special Topics: Business Forecasting   (3.0 credits)
                
                    DESC 695C   Total Quality Management   (3.0 credits)
                
                    DESC 695D   Data Mining Techniques   (3.0 credits)
                
                    DESC 695E   E-Procurement: From Strategy to Consequence   (3.0 credits)
                
                    DESC 695M   Supply Chain Management   (3.0 credits)
                
                    DESC 695N   Negotiation Management, Analysis and Support   (3.0 credits)
                
                    DESC 695P   Project Management   (3.0 credits)
                
                    DESC 695S   Statistical Software for Data Management and Analysis   (3.0 credits)Prerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424