http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/mba/program-details/option-1/elective-courses3.htmlPrerequisite: MBA 609  In this course, participants will cover the basic and critical theories and concepts from consumer behavior (including, for example, decision making processes, motivation, etc). In addition, a large portion of the course will be devoted to the emerging and important topic of "experience marketing". Experience marketing is concerned with the design and delivery of memorable and pleasurable consumer experiences. Thus, the course will provide the basic foundations from consumer behavior and in addition will examine the marketing of products and services where pleasure and sensory experience drive consumers' decisions and behavior.Prerequisite: MBA 610, Co-requisite: MBA 628  Rapid changes in the economic, social, technological and global business environment make it imperative that marketing managers develop an effective and efficient system of marketing planning that profitably capitalizes on emerging trends and shifts in the marketplace. More than ever, organizations must adopt creative and innovative strategies to meet the challenges of the 21st century. Developing such strategies, in a systematic and disciplined manner, is the function of strategic marketing planning.  Strategic Marketing Planning integrates concepts and tools that students have been exposed in prerequisite marketing and other business courses. The course focuses on strategic marketing planning as a means of building a sustainable competitive advantage for the organization. Through the in-depth application of prior learning, experiences and course material to strategic cases, students will have the opportunity to blend theory and practice. Pedagogical techniques such as case and class discussions, readings, lectures and an actual planning exercise for an existing organization will be used to help students develop an analytical approach to strategy formulation and decision making.This course aims to develop your skills in developing and implementing  marketing strategies in a global context. It attempts to broaden and deepen the  marketing toolkit acquired in earlier marketing courses. This is done through  focusing on issues specific to international contexts such as: lead markets and  the trade-off between standardization and local adaptation, environmental  factors and drivers of internationalization, the analytical techniques for the  market assessment and market entry strategies, the dynamics of market entry  and penetration in emerging markets, in addition to studying issues involved in  operating in global markets.This applied seminar will focus on the current marketing issues facing global pharmaceutical companies. Marketing to both physicians and consumers will be covered with study of both research-based and generic firms. Regulation of pricing, advertising and intellectual property as they affect marketers will be important topic areas. A module on ethics in the industry is also included. Specific topic areas may vary by semester as issues of importance change in the industry.Prerequisite: MBA 610  The purpose of this course is to introduce students to the principles and practices of Integrated Marketing Communications (IMC) including the strategies and tactics involved in developing and executing IMC programs. Emphasis will be placed on the notion of aligning marketing communications tools: advertising, sales promotion, publicity, direct marketing, sponsorship and personal selling – to provide clarity, consistency and maximum communications impact.This seminar examines strategic and operational issues related to designing and delivering pleasurable and memorable consumer experiences. The area of experience marketing encompasses both consumer goods as well as services. The focus will be on how organizations create experiential value for stakeholders with, as underpinning, the process by which consumers treat experiential inputs and make decisions on the basis of such information. Examples of topics to be covered include: consumer decision making, the nature of the experiential value creation process, experiential branding, experiential communications, design, atmospherics, and research for experiential marketing. Practice sessions with guest speakers will invite participants to examine various types of consumption experiences such as foodservice experiences, museum experiences, hotel and retail shopping experiences.Prerequisite: MBA 610  The objective of this course is to provide the student with a thorough understanding of current sales management practices, as well as personal selling as it applies to the evaluation and training of salespeople. Conceptual frameworks, practical applications through cases, role playing exercises, and the current readings from business journals such as HBR, MIT/Sloan Management Review, Sales and Marketing Management and The American Salesman will be used to enhance student learning. Hands-on learning will be emphasized through the use of "SimSell" (2003), a computer simulation designed to create a real-life sales management experience. When appropriate, guest speakers will be invited to discuss issues of interest to the class.  Key topics will be as follows: the personal selling process; organizing, staffing and training sales people; directing sales force operations; sales planning; and the evaluation of sales performance.This course will focus on the theory and practice of relationship marketing, a strategy particularly pertinent in the new knowledge-based service economy. Relationship marketing applies concepts from the field of services marketing and management, and permits the firm to protect its customer base by continuously creating customer-perceived value over time. The positive economic consequences of relationship marketing result in: increased customer retention and decreased defection; more customer referrals and less negative word-of mouth; more and premium priced purchases over-time; lower marketing costs of maintaining rather than attracting new clients; and the invaluable knowledge obtained from the close customer relationship. Establishing mutually beneficial relationships involves giving promises, and enhancing them requires a new set of promises predicated on the existence of trust developed within the relationship. This results in the firm obtaining a sustainable competitive advantage and increased revenues over time.The course focuses on the strategic role of social media marketing. The primary objective is to introduce students to the various types of social media sites on the web and demonstrate how they each can play a role in an integrated internet marketing campaign. Particular attention is given to the hands on experience in the promotion of a blog and the analysis of performance aided in part by in-class workshops. The balance of the course is a blend of lectures, readings and papers, which are used to achieve the course objectives. Prerequisite: MBA 610  Brands are intangible but extremely valuable assets for organizations, and are a key component of the value offered to the consumers and other constituencies. In the contemporary marketplace, where it is easy to replicate production and distribution, branding becomes an important tool for product or service differentiation. This course will provide the key foundations of establishing a strong brand and cultivating lasting stakeholder value. In addition to providing the class participants with the foundations of successful brand management, particular attention will be given to contemporary issues such as green and cause-related branding, luxury branding, social media and brand management, brand co-creation, and person branding. Teaching methods will include lectures, case studies, industry guest speakers, and a comprehensive brand audit project.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityMBA Marketing elective coursesJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessMARK 671   Consumer Behaviour   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MARK 672   Strategic Marketing   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MARK 681   Seminar in International Marketing   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MARK 691   Pharma Marketing   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MARK 695A   Integrated Marketing Communications   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MARK 695D   Seminar on Experience Marketing   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MARK 695M   Sales Management and Personal Selling   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MARK 695R   Relationship Marketing   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MARK 695T   Social Media Marketing   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MARK 695U   STRATEGIC BRAND MANAGEMENT   (3.0 credits)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424