http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/biology/events.htmlDoes your résumé need a tune-up? A strong resume will open doors to more interviews!
Come to our free résumé clinic to learn what to include, what not to include and what to highlight in your résumé. 
The FOFA Gallery at Concordia University, in partnership with SOMA in Mexico City is pleased to welcome Ellen Belshaw as curatorial intern thanks to the support of Young Canada Works. This international curatorial internship will bridge two cultural regions through the development of an exhibition program that will introduce artists from Mexico City to the Montreal cultural community. As curatorial ambassador, Belshaw will begin the internship at SOMA, a non-profit organization conceived to nurture discussion and exchange in the field of contemporary art and education in Mexico City. She will conclude the internship at the FOFA Gallery, working with the research produced during her time in Mexico.Does your résumé need a tune-up? A strong resume will open doors to more interviews!
Come to our free résumé clinic to learn what to include, what not to include and what to highlight in your résumé. 
Development of Electro-Anaerobic Membrane Bioreactor (EAnMBR) for treatment of high-strength industrial wastewaterVichy against Vichy: History and Memory of the Second World War in the Former Capital of the État français from 1940 to the PresentIt's back to school with one of Canada’s most successful film and TV producersIntegrated Decision Support System for Bridge Type Selection at Conceptual Design StageRing in the holiday season with fellow Concordia  alumni!Ring in the holiday season with fellow tri-state alumni!Ring in the festive season with Concordia President Alan Shepard and your alumni communityTwo choirs in one evening! Jean-Sébastien Allaire leads the largest performing ensemble in the university in this popular concert of choral music. The university choir, made up of students, staff and the community, give their all to celebrate the end of the semester.  Kathy Kennedy directs the chamber choir in a program for a smaller, more intimate choir, singing repertoire from the Renaissance to the present day. The act of singing is one of the most unifying human abilities – both for the singers and the audience. Listen, breathe, and enjoy. Discover how you can make to the most of your science degree to help prepare you for the job market.  Learn about what you have to offer, types of jobs available, the skills employers look for, and resources available to help you get your dream job.Identification and Control of Nonlinear Singularly Perturbed Systems Using Multi-time-scale Neural NetworksRing in the holiday season with fellow Concordia  alumni!Ring in the festive season with Concordia President Alan Shepard and your alumni communityRobust Sensor Fault Detection and Isolation of Gas Turbine EnginesOn December 8, you can buy treasures starting at $2 to support local charitiesRing in the holiday season with fellow Concordia alumni!Ring in the holiday season with fellow Concordia  alumni!Fault Diagnosis and Estimation of Dynamical Systems with Application to Gas TurbinesA talk in the Philosophy Department's Speaker SeriesUnsettled Island: Irish Nationalism, Unionism, and British Imperialism in the Shaping of Irish Independence, 1909-1922Ring in the festive season with Concordia President Alan Shepard and your alumni communityThe Eclectik Ensemble is a different kind of Concordia Big Band, always drawing from the Jazz repertoire but orchestrating their sound with a varied and fearless mix of instruments. This semester’s version will be five winds, four electric guitars, electric and acoustic pianos, vibraphone, bass and drums. We will be playing works from Mingus, Monk and Swallow arranged and orchestrated by some of Montreal’s most talented writers.
Step back into the jazz age with Dave Turner and the Concordia Big Band. The closing concert of the semester will send you out with that great brass and reed sound in your ears, some fabulous singers in your mind's eye, and wishing you had brought your dancing shoes. Swing into the Oscar Peterson Concert Hall for an unforgettable evening.  Directed by Dave Turner. Geordie production's holiday gala fundraiser production.Sexually active women 21 and older should have a Pap test every 2 to 3 years. Many women are not up-to-date with this screening. 

NOT DROP-IN; BY APPOINTMENT ONLY - call x. 3565 to book your spot.Join us for an information session about how the music industry has evolved. A comparative study of research-for-design: Teaching and learning in two undergraduate graphic design programs in Canada and Mexico.Perceived Image, Prestige, Respect and Support: How Employees Manage Multiple Reflected Appraisals at the workplacePhilosophy MA defencePhilosophy MA defenceAnnual children's Christmas concert by the Suzuki institute of music.Metal Organic Frameworks as Dual Functional Adsorbent/Catalysts for Plasma Air Purification SystemsElectrochemical filtration technology for the removal and degradation of ibuprofen and bisphenol A from aqueous solutionsSexually active women 21 and older should have a Pap test every 2 to 3 years. Many women are not up-to-date with this screening. 

NOT DROP-IN; BY APPOINTMENT ONLY - call x. 3565 to book your spot.Sexually active women 21 and older should have a Pap test every 2 to 3 years. Many women are not up-to-date with this screening. 

NOT DROP-IN; BY APPOINTMENT ONLY - call x. 3565 to book your spot.If you are a student in the Engineering and Computer Science Program, please join us for the Engineering and Computer Science Career Fair. It will be a whole day event, where you will have the chance to network with multiple employers within industry.The is a meeting of Living Knowledge community of practice, which brings together faculty and staff who share a passion for community engaged scholarship, with the goal of creating connections, sharing ideas and strengthening our collective practice.  Students, community organizers and representatives from other universities are also welcome. Please RSVP to livingknowledge@concordia.caWhen working with others, we often forget the impressions and impact we have on those around us. We often dismiss just how important our personal reputation impacts the way we are perceived and in turn, how others relate to us and ultimately, what opportunities are opened to us. From first impressions to making a lasting impression, this one-day workshop will provide you with tips, tricks and tools from dressing the part to knowing how to apply effective communication techniques and professional behaviour when working closely with others.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityDepartment of Biology
            
                Department of BiologyHappy Birthday Canada: Celebrating 150 YearsToday's eventsOngoing eventsUpcoming eventsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424with Dr. Avigail Eisenberg, Professor, University of Victoria
            with Jean-Pierre Kingsley, Former Chief Electoral Officer of Canada
            with Honourable Don Boudria, Former Government House Leader 
            with Dr. Keith Archer, Chief Electoral Officer of British Columbia
            Honourable Senator James S. Cowan, Senate Liberal Leader