http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/offices/vpaer/aar/2016/02/10/flight-management-systems-for-all.htmlFlight management systems are much like the Global Positioning System (GPS) in cars — only the pilot enters the information about where the plane is headed, and off it goes — no need for an actual person to navigate or figure out how fast to fly in order to save fuel or arrive on time.The technology was introduced commercially in the Boeing 767 in the early 1980s. It’s now used in all commercial airliners and private planes.Flight management systems are costly, though. Manufacturers charge a minimum of $13,000 per system and have long kept their coding secret. While that’s not a problem for large airlines, those prices and restrictions can be prohibitive for personal aircraft owners.Concordia researchers Luis Rodrigues and Jesus Villarroel, MASc 15, may be changing that reality. In a study to be published by the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, they set out a mathematical formula that accurately recreates the calculations that a flight management system (FMS) makes for a cruising Airbus 320.“Our formula can easily be adapted for smaller aircraft — and then run in an app on a smartphone,” says Rodrigues, an associate professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and a member of the Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design and Innovation. (See the side- bar, “Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design and Innovation’s interdisciplinary research.”) “Essentially, this formula is an open-access FMS that can be used by pilots, people in the industry and people who study aerospace. FMS algorithms have long been proprietary information that was unavailable to the public. Now we have a better under- standing of what’s in the code.”Rodrigues and his co-author Villarroel, who is now working with the flight simulator company TRU Simulation and Training in Montreal, are excited about the educational implications of this new FMS formula. “We can give students the analytic formula and have them adjust it to fit different aircraft models,” says Rodrigues. “It gives students an idea of what it’s like to work with and program a commercial FMS — before they’re employed by the airline industry.”Although that app has yet to be developed, Rodrigues is confident that it wouldn’t be hard to program. “Our formula is a square root of a sum of two terms, one of them depending on the weight of the aircraft,” he says. “The formula can be used with data from a specific aircraft, just like with a regular FMS. Students using our FMS can ask themselves, ‘If I change the weight by a tiny bit, if I change the altitude by this much, what will happen?’ They can then plug those numbers into the formula to find out.”While it remains to be seen if the formula will ever be used by big companies like Airbus or Boeing, the study has al- ready piqued the curiosity of navigation systems company Marinvent. It will soon test the formula in one of its simulators — one of which is housed at Concordia.From there, the sky’s the limit, says Rodrigues. “We’ve opened the door for Marinvent to adapt an FMS for its own needs. I hope others will take this formula and go and build on what we’ve done.”Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keywordWhen the Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design and Innovation opened its doors in the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science in 2001, it was the first institute of its kind in Montreal. Since then it has helped the university remain at the forefront of aerospace education and research.Recently, the institute expanded its mandate to include research initiatives beyond the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science. Projects from the institute’s 60 affiliated researchers provide solutions to challenges facing the aerospace industry, helping to make air transportation faster, easier and cleaner. Here are four researchers’ work.One research focus for Ali Akgunduz, associate professor in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, is on planes’ speed selection during the total journey, to reduce fuel consumption and optimize flight time while targeting the elimination of collisions in the air. By ensuring flights arrive at their scheduled times — not early or late — use as little fuel as possible and don’t affect the flight paths of other planes, Akgunduz’s research helps control costs related to fuel consumption and airport fines.The research of Wahid Ghaly, professor in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, focuses on multidisciplinary analysis, design and optimization of gas turbine engines. This involves developing aerodynamic design and optimization methods for turbine and compressor stages, the integration of the developed design methods into the engine design system, and optimization of the design process to eliminate any bottlenecks or delays.The research program of Krzysztof Skonieczny, an assistant professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, involves the study of space robots and how they interact with terrain: through driving, gripping, sampling and digging.As robotic space exploration targets more and more extreme landscapes on the moon, Mars and asteroids, an accurate understanding of how robots can interact with these terrains improves chances of success. Advanced rovers able to drive on steeper sandy slopes would open exploration to a significant number of new craters and mountains. Efficient planning of robot routes can get more out of power-starved space missions.Ali Dolatabadi’s main research topic is the use of superhydrophobic and icephobic coatings to prevent the build-up of ice on the wings of aircraft. The professor in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering is involved in two projects on the topics with the Consortium de recherche et d’innovation en aérospatiale au Québec.Dolatabadi’s research teams have developed numerical tools to increase the durability of the materials on an aircraft that are impacted by icing in the air. Their research also involves actively working on the development of durable superhydrophobic coatings that repel water from the surface of these parts, delaying the icing process.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFlight management systems for allNews
            
                News
            Related topicsRelated linksFind an expertConcordia Institute of Aerospace Design And Innovation’s interdisciplinary researchAir transport engineering and aviation managementModelling and simulationSpace and autonomous systemsStructures, materials and manufacturingConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424