http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/maps/buildings/ge.htmlThe Centre for Structural and Functional Genomics (CSFG) was officially inaugurated in November 2011 as part of the celebrations marking the 6th year of Montreal’s designation as a UNESCO City of Design.CSFG’s design reflects the city’s architectural innovation with an open concept that allows natural light to stream into nearly every corner of the new building. Even the partially dug-out basement receives daylight through an innovative glass-sided staircase along with the large windows and glassed walls in the offices lining the building’s perimeter. The open concept promotes the centre’s intrinsic values of inclusiveness, co-operation and interdisciplinarity. The architecture serves as a model for the future construction of research and laboratory facilities.Located at the corner of Sherbrooke St. W. and West Broadway, CSFG is among new structures revitalizing the Loyola campus, and invigorating the urban landscape in the surrounding Notre-Dame-de-Grâce neighbourhood.CSFG has four floors – 5,400 sq. metres – dedicated to research facilities. The building is connected to the adjacent Richard J. Renaud Science Complex (SP) through passageways on the second and third floors, as well as a tunnel on the basement level. A tunnel also links CSFG with the Communication Studies/Journalism (CJ) building. This underground network saves students and faculty time and trouble, especially during winter months. The building has qualified for silver certification under the LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) program with features such as:The building was completed under budget, with the original estimated cost being at close to $29 million. Montreal sculptor Marie-France Brière conceptualized the centre’s outdoor art titled, Figures en lisière (2011). Her rendition of the Earth’s interior combines African black granite, Georgian white marble and stainless steel. The inspiration came from a photograph that Brière saw of the layers carved by hand and machines at a granite quarry in Stanstead, Que. The sculpted layers of Figures en lisière pay homage to the scientific unearthing that occurs at CSFG. The public art was placed in a prominent location facing Sherbrooke Street West to connect the community with the explorations into natural science occurring at the centre. The public art represents one per cent of the project’s total cost.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityCentre for Structural and Functional GenomicsCampus maps
            
                Campus maps
            LEED qualitiesCommunity connectionConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424