http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/mba-cfa/admissions/gmat.htmlAll applicants to a Masters or PhD level program at the John Molson of Business are required to submit a valid GMAT score as part of their application, unless specified as an exception under the program’s admission requirements. This aptitude test measures quantitative abilities, verbal skills, integrated reasoning and analytical writing. It is used as a diagnostic tool for assessing and comparing the suitability of candidates. The GMAT is administered as a Computer-Adaptive Test (CAT) through the Pearson Professional Centre network throughout North America and at many international test centers.Concordia University’s John Molson School of Business has partnered with Quantum Test Prep, one of the leading GMAT preparation providers in Canada, to provide a comprehensive suite of ongoing GMAT test prep courses and a number of complimentary GMAT events and services including GMAT simulated exams, GMAT information sessions, GMAT math refreshers and GMAT trial classes, at both its Montreal campus and Toronto facilities. The goal of these services, entitled the Concordia GMAT Study Series  is to help students improve their GMAT scores to achieve successful admission into the Concordia MBA and Masters programs. Students may find out more and register for these free events by clicking on the links below. The next series of events to be held during the Winter session will be listed soon.1. GMAT Information Sessions (Montreal)
2. GMAT Math Refresher classes (Montreal)
3. GMAT Mock Exams (Montreal)
4. GMAT Trial Classes (Toronto only)In addition to these free GMAT events, Concordia University hosts a single-weekend 30hr GMAT Prep course on-campus at the JMSB in Montreal several times a year (Concordia GMAT Bootcamp). For students who require more intensive review or a more significant score improvement, a longer 100hr GMAT prep course (Ultimate GMAT course) is also offered in Toronto on a monthly basis. Concordia University’s Centre for Continuing Education also offers GMAT preparatory courses several times throughout the year. We also encourage you to do your own research on a wide range of resources available to prepare for GMAT, online and at your local bookstores.
Please visit the GMAT website for more information, including the dates and locations for upcoming exams.The GMAT codes for Concordia University are:A GRE score from the past five years may be considered instead of the GMAT but the GMAT is highly preferred.The ETS GRE code for Concordia University is 0956.

Please refer to each program’s respective admission requirements for minimum GMAT score required; this may vary from one program to another.

Unofficial test results for the verbal and quantitative sections are available in writing immediately following completion of the test and you are encouraged to upload your student copy of the results to your online application.

The test may be retaken after one month. The GMAT score is valid for five years.

It is recommended that students book their test date and time at least four weeks in advance.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityGraduate Management Admissions Test (GMAT)John Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessConcordia GMAT Study SeriesTo register for the GMATConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424