http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/polisci/programs/graduate/graduate-funding.htmlThere are many funding opportunities for graduate students, including:Financial Aid programs are also available to graduate students. Learn more.All current graduate students and new applicants are encouraged to apply for teaching assistantships.  PhD receive teaching assistantships for the first three years of their program as part of their funding packages. MPPPA students will be funded as far as possible, but typically are not considered beyond the second year of study in the program. The department offers two levels of teaching assistantship.GRADE 1 – Tutorial Leader                                                        Grade 1 Teaching Assistants are required to perform a 130 hours of marking during the term and may be called upon to grade final examinations.  In addition to 130 hours of marking. Grade 1 Teaching Assistants are required to attend lectures, lead seminars and to hold regular office hours during the term.GRADE 2: Tutorial LeaderGrade 2 Teaching Assistants are required to perform 130 hours of marking during the term and may be called upon to grade final examinations.  In addition to 130 hours of marking, Grade 2 Teaching Assistants are required to attend lectures and to hold regular office hours during the term.The following list is by no means exhaustive of the various research opportunities in the department, but highlights some of the interesting research assistantships available. Students apply for all research assistantships directly to the faculty members administering the grant. PhD Research Fellowship in Gender MainstreamingThe Department of Political Science at Concordia University in Montreal, QC is offering two PhD Fellowships in Gender Mainstreaming with a minimum value of $69,000 (at least $23,000 per year for three years) to commence in September, 2017. The doctoral research fellows will assist with the project The Politics of ‘Doing’: Gender-Based Analysis and Policy Work in Canada, led by Drs. Stephanie Paterson and Francesca Scala.Funded by the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada (SSHRC), this project investigates the ways that feminist knowledges mediate bureaucratic practices in Canada, with specific focus on gender-based analysis at both federal and provincial levels. Applicants should have a broad research interest in feminist policy studies, with a specific focus on equality policy architectures and/or gender-based policy analysis.The doctoral research fellows will play an important role in the research project and have the opportunity to co-author with members of the project team and present at conferences, while also conducting their own independent research. Additional funding for conference travel may be available throughout the course of the project.The funding breakdown is as follows:·         Research assistance: $30,000 ($10,000 per year for 3 years);·         Teaching assistance: minimum of $18,000 (at least $6,000 per year for 3 years);·         Faculty of Arts and Science Mentor Award: $21,000 ($7,000 per year for 3 years);·         Students from outside of Canada will receive a tuition remission in the form of an International Tuition Award of Excellence (valued at approximately $35,000);·         Applicants will automatically be considered for additional internal fellowships.Interested applicants should send a one-page statement outlining research interests and relevant experience along with a copy of their CV to Dr. Stephanie Paterson (Stephanie.paterson@concordia.ca) before January 15, 2017. Students must also mention their interest in this Fellowship in their application to Concordia University’s doctoral program in Political Science. Details on the doctoral program can be found here: https://www.concordia.ca/artsci/polisci/programs/graduate/phd-political-science.htmlThe contemporary politics of First Peoples/Settlers relationsDr. Daniel SaléeThis research program aims at documenting and analyzing the political and societal processes shaping the relationship between Indigenous peoples, the state and settler society in Canada.  The following list only highlights some of the available funding for graduate students at Concordia. For a more comprehensive list of funding opportunities, including deadlines for application, please consult the School of Graduate Studies Graduate Awards Directory.Offered to students who accept their offer of admission to Concordia and have received a fellowship/scholarship offer from one of the designated provincial or federal agencies (SSHRC or FQRSC). At the doctoral level, students receive a Special Entrance Award valued at $10,000 in the first year of tenure of their external award. At the master’s level, students receive a Special Entrance Award valued at $6,000 in the first year of tenure of their external award.The Faculty of Arts and Science offers, on a competitive basis, recruitment fellowships to incoming students valued at up to $7000 for one year in MA programs and $12,000 per year for three years at the PhD level. In addition, graduate students are eligible to hold teaching assistantships through their departments and to work as research assistants with faculty members and research centers in the Faculty.The Azrieli Institute of Israel Studies at Concordia University will award one Montefiore Graduate Fellowship (Israel Studies) to an incoming graduate student (Master's or Phd) whose work is related to the study of Israel in the broad sense, as per the mandate of the Institute. Specifically, this includes comparative work that includes Israel as a case. The value of the award is 7000 CAD and it will be paid to the student upon his/ her confirmed enrolment and registration in a graduate program at the university in the 2017/18 academic year. The award may be renewable in subsequent years subject to the availability of funds and satisfactory progress by the student. There is no separate application process. All eligible students who apply for admission to a graduate program and are offered admission for 2017/18 will be considered.This award exempts students from paying tuition fees at the international student rates, however candidates will be expected to pay tuition fees at the regular (Quebec) rate, as well as foreign insurance. These awards are valued at 11.25 credits per term.There is an Open Competition for select awards for which all students are eligible. These awards range in value from $2,500 to $20,000 per year, and are granted based on the applicant’s ranking in the competition.Funds are available to registered graduate students for presentations at major scholarly conferences, or artistic exhibitions in a peer-reviewed or juried context. Deadlines are announced during the academic year. Learn more about conference funding & download forms.  http://www.fqrsc.gouv.qc.ca/fr/accueil.phpAll applications and recommendation letters MUST be submitted electronically to FQRSC and applicants must submit a cover page, the official transcripts, copy of medicare card, as well as the copy of IMM1000 (for Permanent residents only), to the Graduate Awards Office (M-205) in mid-October. Please check the FQRSC website for this years deadline. At the time of application, a candidate must be a Canadian citizen or permanent resident and have been a resident of Quebec for at least one year. Both master’s and doctoral students are eligible.Note: The MA competition requires a minimum 3.7 cumulative GPA.M.A. (B-1 competition)             $15,000Duration: Two years after initial registration in the graduate program.Ph.D. (B-2 competition)           $20,000Duration:  To a maximum of three years.http://www.sshrc.caApplication to SSHRC must be submitted to the Department if student is currently registered at Concordia. Those submitted through the University are first ranked at the Departmental level, and then sent to University Committee where a set number of applications are chosen to send on to national competition. Applicants must be Canadian citizens or landed immigrants.For the MA fellowship, GPA must be 3.7 or over for last two years of full-time study.M.A. Scholarship Value: $17,500Deadline for Submission to the Department: mid-October. Confirm specific date with Graduate Program Assistant.Doctoral Fellowship Value: $20,000 - $35,000. (The top-ranked winners are awarded “Canada Graduate Scholarships,” worth $35,000 per year, for three years; the regular doctoral fellowships are worth $20,000 per year, for up to four years).Deadline for Submission to the Department: mid-October. Confirm specific date with Graduate Program Assistant.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityGraduate fundingDepartment of Political Science
            
                Department of Political ScienceDepartmental funding
                
            
                
					
                    University funding
                
            
                
					
                    External fundingConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Departmental Teaching Assistantships: Open semester competitionsDepartmental Research Assistantships: Open competitionsSpecial Entrance Awards and Awards of ExcellenceFaculty of Arts and Science FellowshipsMontefiore Graduate Fellowship (Israel Studies)Concordia University International Tuition Fee Remission AwardsConcordia University Open-CompetitionSupplemental Funds for Conferences FQRSC (Provincial)SSHRC (National)