http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/library/guides/accountancy/impact.htmlMeasuring the inter-and cross-disciplinary impact of your published research can be a valuable indication of the achievement of both an individual or unit and can play a role in a number of decision making processes including:Identifying Research Trends including:Citation analysis (or bibliometrics) can provide valuable data for determining the impact of published research. Back to topWhen an article is submitted for publication, citation analytics features (available via many business and multi-disciplinary databases), enables you to monopolise on key components for mining important metric-based quantitative data to measure impact.  These include:Back to topTherefore:Back to topChoosing the right tool for the job.  What are you measuring?Using Web of ScienceWeb of Science is made up of three citation indices owned by Thomson Scientific:Within Web of Science, the ‘Author’ field on the search page enables you to determine the citation activity to an authors publication. You can also use ‘Author Finder’ to identify a particular author. Running an ‘author’ search can be used to create a list of works they have written.  Once you have generated a list of publications by particular author you can generate a citation report to view graphs and summary data for results sets of 10,000 or fewer depicting the distribution of items by:Note: The h-index is only meaningful when compared to others within the same discipline area.  Researchers in one field may have very different h-indices than researchers in another.Google Scholar is the scholarly arm of Google. It contains material across many disciplines and sources including journal articles and books. Where available citation tracking information is provided, including all the data indexed in Google Books. This makes it the most comprehensive tool for checking book or book chapter citations.To analyse publications and citation counts in Google scholar use the analytics plug-in Publish or Perish.Remember: citation indexes are primarily based on selected journal literature. If the author is most likely to be cited in books, non-English language journals, or journals not covered in the database, the usefulness of citation analysis is limited. The Web of Knowledge database Journal Citation Reports database allows you to evaluate and compare journals using citation data drawn from journals indexed by the Web of Science database.  It includes the disciplines of science, technology, and social sciences. The JCR is available in 2 discipline specific editions:Using this tool you can view the:Click here to view a brief tutorial on using the Journal Citation Reports database.Back to top Back to research guide home© Concordia UniversityWebster Library
Physical Address:
1400 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Mailing Address:
1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8
Telephone (1) 514-848-2424 ext. 7777
See on mapVanier Library
7141 Sherbrooke Street West
Montreal, Quebec, Canada, H4B 1R6
Telephone (1) 514-848-2424 ext. 7766
See on mapThanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback.Concordia UniversityMaximizing the visibility and impact of your published researchLibrary
            
                LibraryAn individual or groups of authors
                
            
                
					
                    The research performance of an individual paper: use Google Scholar
                
            
                
					
                    Topic or field trends
                
            Feedback formsBenchmarking Your Research Using Citation Analysis
Maximizing the Impact and Visibility of Your Published Research
Strategies to Increase Citations to Your Publications
Tools to Access Research Performance DataConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424On this page