http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/events/offices/vpaer/oce/2017/02/07/indigenizing-course-content.htmlWhen it was published in 2015, the Final Report of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada sent ripples across the country.  In it, the authors asked the important question, “Now that we know about residential schools and their legacy, what do we do about it?” In the face of the significant truths presented in this report, what steps can staff and faculty at Concordia take towards reconciliation?  What tools and resources do we need to facilitate our response? Several of the 94 Calls to Action outlined in the report link to the mandate of post-secondary institutions, particularly those surrounding education for reconciliation. Recognizing the importance and magnitude of this work, this community of practice gathering will focus on the ways in which we can integrate indigenous voices, knowledge and leaders into our teaching. What impact can this have and how can it be achieved? What fears and hesitations hold each of us back?  Most importantly, when we partner with community members on our efforts to respond to the TRC, how can we ensure that we do so in a way that is both meaningful and mutually beneficial? Guests:Vicky BoldoElizabeth FastChantel Henderson

 This is the third of four meetings of the Living Knowledge community of practice during the 2016-2017 academic year. The Living Knowledge community of practice brings together faculty and staff who share a passion for community engaged scholarship, with the goal of creating connections, sharing ideas and strengthening our collective practice. Students, community organizers and representatives from other universities are also welcome. For more information, or to RSVP, please email livingknowledge@concordia.ca.
© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
                        Indigenizing Course Content: How can our pedagogy shift in response to the TRC?Department of Biology
            
                Department of BiologyConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424