http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/information-systems-masc.htmlThe academic aim of this Master of Applied Science (M.A.Sc.) program is to prepare students with the skills, knowledge, cutting-edge technologies, expertise and best practices to be security architects capable of designing, implementing, analyzing and managing the security of real-life information systems.Second, the program will put the emphasis on helping each individual acquire the skills and knowledge necessary to maximize his or her potential as a researcher in information systems security. Students will engage in applied research and academic course of study examining existing theory and ways in which these influence the security of information systems. Financial support may be provided by a thesis advisor in certain cases.This program has a Co-op option. For details each student should contact his/her academic advisor.Degree requirementsThe requirements described here are in addition to the general degree requirements for the Master’s programs in the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science.In order to graduate, students must have a CGPA of at least 3.00.Courses. Students must complete a minimum of 20 credits, including 16 credits of core courses (INSE 6110, INSE 6120, INSE 6130, and INSE 6140) and one 4-credit course as shown below:Students have the option to do the thesis work within the industrial milieu through the Institute for Co-operative Education. The suggested schedule of the program is as follows: fall and winter terms will be dedicated to course work, followed by two or three terms for research and development in industry, culminating in one or two terms in the Institute for the writing and defence of the thesis. Each student in this case will have a supervisor from the Institute and a mentor from industry. The intellectual property will be managed according to the University policy.Admission requirementsApplicants to the Master of/Magisteriate in Applied Science in Information Systems Security must hold a bachelor’s degree or equivalent in:Admission to the program is competitive and only applicants with high academic standing will be considered. Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be asked to take such courses in addition to their regular graduate program. The Faculty Graduate Studies Committee, in consultation with the Institute, is responsible for the recommendation of all applications for admission.Residence requirements. The minimum residence requirement for the Master’s degree is three terms (one year) of full-time study, or the equivalent in part-time study.Transfer from the Master of Engineering in Information Systems Security. Students, in good standing, who have completed a minimum of 12 credits in the Master of Engineering in Information Systems Security, may apply for a transfer to the Master of Applied Science in Information Systems Security.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.To see curriculum requirements, please visit the section above on curriculum requirements. For topic area course lists, please visit the Graduate Calendar.For course descriptions, please visit the Graduate Calendar.CIISE produces a high level of multidisciplinary research activity. Faculty members are involved in a wide range of research projects sponsored by both industry and government agencies in various areas of research, classified as follows: systems engineering, software engineering, middleware, systems security, cryptography and data security, cyber forensics, incident handling, security evaluation, biometrics, communication networks, communication protocols, image processing, 3D graphics, computer vision, pattern recognition, design science, requirements engineering for product design, tele-geo-informatics, augmented reality, infrastructure and facilities management, project management, geographic information systems, statistics, supply chain management, quality management, e-business systems, decision support systems, RFID, operations research, optimization, and artificial intelligence.Concordia’s Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science offers modern, well equipped research laboratories and facilities for graduate students, postdoctoral fellows and other research personnel.The Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering is an international centre of teaching and learning excellence established as a department within the Faculty. It promotes interdisciplinary research and development of information technologies in software and systems engineering. CIISE has three affiliated research laboratories:Email: graduate@ciise.concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 5367Location: 
 1515 St. Catherine W., EV 7.641
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 2W1Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityInformation Systems Security (MASc)Key resourcesDegree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty research interests
                
            
                
					
                    Research units & facilities
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a master's in information systems security?Program detailsRelated ProgramsMaster of Applied Science (MASc)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424