http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/polisci/programs/graduate/mpppa-public-policy-administration/internship.htmlAn internship is a 21-credit academic course POLI 693, conducted in the workplace: An experiential learning exercise enabling the intern to learn first-hand about their chosen profession, upon which they build their career.DEFINITION from the Canadian Association for Co-operative Education (CAFCE):An internship = 16 weeks, full-time, relevant, supervised work, monitored by the UniversityMost internships are located in Ottawa and Montreal, however, a number of interns find rewarding placements around the world, such as Geneva, Washington, DC or elsewhere around the globe. The sectors that pursue interns at the Master’s level in Public Policy and Public Administration are:  Federal, Provincial, and Municipal Government; Crown Corporations; Inter-Governmental Organizations (UN/EU); Non-Governmental Organizations (NGO); Think Tanks; Research Centres; Embassies; Consulates; and Private Corporations.Some of our employers:Postings offered through the Internship Office with the Public Service of Canada are guaranteed paid positions. For unpaid internships, Quebec residents may apply for internship scholarships through Concordia International for placements secured outside the Province of Quebec.Unlike other universities with similar programs, we do not charge co-op fees.Positions posted through our program by the Federal and Provincial government employer are reserved for Canadian Citizens or (in some cases) Permanent Residents. International students may be eligible for internships with IGOs, NGOs, and Private Corporations.Students must apply to positions posted through the program. Some may be from abroad. Worth noting is that the job application process occurs the semester before the internship begins. This leaves little time for an employer or a student to organize an internship overseas.Students interested in an international option should discuss this early in the program with the Coordinator.Students are not permitted to look for work within the Federal or Provincial government on their own because any competition activity that would be generated independently would conflict with the program’s. The Internship Coordinator does all of the communicating on behalf of the program and its interns. Student interns are to work through the Coordinator for access to any Federal (including Crown Corporations), Provincial, or Municipal government. Students interested in pursuing positions with an NGO or an IGO are free to initiate an independent search.Most students secure positions that enable them to further develop their skills in research and analysis. Some typical titles/positions define the work as Junior Policy Analyst or Audit and Evaluation Intern. All internship positions are reviewed by the program before posting to ensure that they are relevant and at the appropriate academic level to promote learning and development.Although we can boast that we have placed 100% of our students since 2005 – we do not guarantee a placement. The market fluctuates depending on the economy and the government of the day. The availability of internships and the competition for each, play a key role in defining placement success every semester.You will be competing for specific positions with students in your program as well as with interns from other universities. Although employers post openings at several universities, Concordia’s interns have two important advantages: the internship comes at the end of the program and can be renewed for an additional four months, making it unique among similar programs.To receive credit for POLI 693, students are required to complete a 4-month internship placement and write an internship paper. The final grade will be comprised of the following components:Eve Pankovitch
Internship Coordinator
H 1225-05
Tel: 514-848-2424 ext. 2114
polisci.internship@concordia.ca© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityInternshipDepartment of Political Science
            
                Department of Political Science
            For more informationConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424What is an Internship?Where are the jobs?Who hires?Do Interns get paid?Are there Co-op fees to pay in order to participate?Must I be Canadian to qualify?What if I want to work abroad?Can I look for a job on my own?What is the work like?Am I guaranteed a job?Am I competing against other students?How do you measure a successful internship?What is expected of me academically while I am completing my internship?Please make an appointment to meet with our Internship Coordinator.