http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/jmsb/2016/06/03/jmsb_s-michel-laroche-wins-2016-hans-b--thorelli-award.htmlConcordia’s Michel Laroche was co-author of a paper that has won the Hans B. Thorelli Award. The prize is awarded by the Editorial Board of the Journal of International Marketing  and recognizes an article that has made the most significant and long-term contribution to international marketing theory or practice.The winning paper was published in 2009 and is entitled Cosmopolitanism, Consumer Ethnocentrism, and Materialism: An Eight-Country Study of Antecedents and Outcomes. The paper examines whether or not consumer attitudes and behaviours worldwide are homogenizing as industries are globalizing.Laroche’s co-authors are Mark Cleveland of Western University and Nicolas Papadopoulos of Carleton University.The award is presented at the American Marketing Association’s Summer Marketing Educators’ Conference. It is named in honour of Professor Hans B. Thorelli, who directed the first-ever representative study of consumer experience in the marketplace in a developing country (Thailand). He initiated the development of the pioneering, marketing-oriented International Operations Simulation (INTOP) at the University of Chicago in 1964 and directed the 2006 edition of INTOPIA B2B for the Internet. Thorelli was a Distinguished Professor of Business Administration Emeritus at Indiana University and the author of more than 100 articles and 11 books in marketing, international business, strategic management, and public policy. He held doctoral and LLD degrees from the University of Stockholm. Professor Thorelli passed away in 2009.Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityJMSB’s Michel Laroche wins 2016 Hans B. Thorelli AwardJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            Related topicsFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424