http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/mba/alumni/mubashir-jamal.htmlWhere are you working now?I am currently Director, Special Projects for Limited Brands Canada, owners of the world leading brands La Senza, Victoria Secret, Bath and Body Works and Pink. Prior to joining Limited Brands, I worked as a Senior Manager for Loblaw Companies Limited. The Career Management Services team at JMSB played an incredible role in my development, not only in helping me find this position, but providing the necessary coaching and support throughout my MBA studies. We continue to live in a very challenging economic climate, and CMS recognized that providing contacts to MBA students wasn't enough; they went a step further and provided support and coaching.What was your background before starting your MBA?I worked three years in a marketing role largely in the airline and travel sectors as well as store operations. During my MBA, I was fortunate to work on a number of consulting mandates that broadened my experience to include strategy, finance and project management.Why did you decide to do an MBA?The major reason I pursued my MBA was to diversify my skill set and to position myself as a cross-functional leader that didn't just work exclusively in marketing, but in other areas of the business, including operations, merchandising and strategy. I was confident that an MBA would allow me to open new doors for more responsibility and ownership with a challenging and evolving organization.Why did you choose the John Molson School of Business?I was attracted to the John Molson School of Business for a number of reasons but I would have to say that the top reason was for the diversity of the students both in terms of where they came from and what their backgrounds were. This really enriched the classroom experience for me. I was one of the youngest MBA students in the program, which was intimidating at first, but I saw the opportunity to learn from my peers as a once in a lifetime chance, to learn from their experiences and how they approached their challenges. I attribute a great deal of my MBA success to the life lessons I received from my peers, it truly was a global MBA with a cross-functional perspective.How did your MBA affect your career?One of the first lessons I learned in retail was that ‘Retail is Detail!’ There are just so many everyday surprise challenges in retail but at the same time, there is an equal amount of opportunity; from process to product flow and from the customer shopping experience all the way to in-store execution; how do you manage an organization to always be in preparation for the next new challenge? How do you deliver with speed without comprising execution and results? At the end of the day, everything comes down to that moment when a customer decides to buy your brand and how well you execute in-store, hence why it’s so critical to work cross-functionally. The practical lessons I learned from my MBA are teachings that I refer to on a regular basis, whether it be a challenge in operations, merchandising, human resources or finance. At the end of the day, it's almost impossible to find a challenge that does not require a cross-functional approach. At Limited Brands, we focus a lot on cross-functional analysis, and the process I have learned during my MBA enables me to contribute in an effective way, no matter what surprise challenge is waiting for me.How did you enjoy your time in the Program?My time spent in the MBA is full of many tough and challenging moments, whether it be having many deep discussions during group projects or classroom debates, or stressing for an upcoming derivatives exam. At the same time however, there are many fun moments, like after class dinner and drinks. I was delighted to be part of a group of students that made it a point for our MBA to participate in as many case competitions as possible, and it's great to see the success our MBA students achieve in both Canadian and international case competitions.Do you still maintain contact with members from your graduating class and/or the school?I'm still involved with the business school as I sit on the advisory board for the John Molson Undergraduate Case Competition, which is an international case competition being organized by our undergraduate students. It's a great way to stay connected to the business school. I'm also trying to influence retailers to get involved with the business school through various sponsorship opportunities. I believe that the retail industry represents an extraordinary career opportunity for business graduates, an opportunity that will never stop evolving. Today, retail was not what it was 10 years ago and in 10 years from now, retail will not be what it is today. From a long-term career perspective, that’s pretty exciting.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityMubashir Jamal, MBA ‘09John Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424A diverse program with great career services.