http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/music-therapy.htmlMusic therapy facilitates the process of personal growth and change through the provision of expressive and receptive musical experiences. The music therapist guides clients towards developmental, rehabilitative, psychotherapeutic, and wellness goals by fostering personal expression, and creating musical experiences.The MA in Creative Arts Therapies, Music Therapy Option is the only full professional training program in Québec. The program, approved by the Canadian Association for Music Therapy (CAMT), is designed according to the current philosophy and standards of education with the discipline of music therapy.Students demonstrate their mastery in a particular area of music therapy through completion of a thesis.Internship/practicumStudents will complete a practicum as part of their degree requirements. See full degree requirements in the Graduate CalendarAdmission Requirements. Entry into the program requires either: 1) a bachelor’s/baccalaureate degree in Music Therapy with a 1,000-hour internship (or equivalent); OR 2) a Graduate Certificate or Diploma in Music Therapy (or equivalent). Applicants are selected on the basis of a past academic record of no less than a B- average (3.00 on a 4.30 scale), or equivalent, a 500-word letter of intent, a curriculum vitae, and three letters of recommendation.A placement audition is also required.Application process
 
See how to applyPriority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.See the graduate calendar for course curriculum and descriptions.Please also take note of the sample course sequence.The practicum component of our creative arts therapies training programs provide students with the opportunity to apply the knowledge and skills that they are acquiring in their coursework.  It is the vehicle for integrating theory with clinical experience – a critical element in the development of the professional competence of an art therapist, drama therapist or music therapist.  Practicum includes both clinical experience and supervision.Clinical experience is acquired in a variety of agencies in the greater Montreal area, providing the student with practical application of art therapy, drama therapy or music therapy.  Supervision is provided at both the agency and at the University.In the Music Therapy MA, students have the opportunity for advanced specialization in the clinical area of their choice in either one or two terms.Creative Arts Therapies classes are held in the Visual Arts Building on the downtown campus.Music Therapy classes are held in acoustically-designed studios equipped with superb sound and technological capabilities. Both of our music therapy studios house new acoustic pianos, one of them being a baby grand. A collection of diverse musical instruments (e.g., world drums, Orff, and other improvisational instruments) is available for classroom instruction as well as for student use in individual practice and at their practicum agencies.Lecture-based classes can be held in the seminar room, recently updated with new tables and chairs. All Creative Arts Therapies students can use the seminar for quiet study outside of class time and during business hours. Music Therapy students can use the studios for individual and group rehearsals.Learn more about facilities in the Faculty of Fine ArtsCareer opportunities for music therapists exist in a wide variety of healthcare and educational settings. These include psychiatric hospitals, rehabilitative facilities, medical hospitals, outpatient clinics, day care treatment centers, agencies serving persons with developmental disabilities, community mental health and wellness centers, drug and alcohol programs, senior centers, nursing homes, hospice programs, correctional facilities, halfway houses, schools, and private practice. Read about our alumni career stories.

For more information about career and employment opportunities:Email: Alyssa.Browning@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 4790Location: 
 1395 René Lévesque Blvd. W.,  VA 264
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 2M5Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityMusic Therapy (MA)Key resourcesProgram options & degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Internship/practicum
                
            
                
					
                    Facilities
                
            
                
					
                    Career prospects
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a master's in music therapy?Program detailsRelated ProgramsMaster of Arts (MA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Sample classes