http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/music-therapy-diploma.htmlMusic therapy facilitates the process of personal growth and change through the provision of expressive and receptive musical experiences. The music therapist guides clients towards developmental, rehabilitative, psychotherapeutic, and wellness goals by fostering personal expression, and creating musical experiences.The 28-credit Graduate Diploma is unique in Canada and the United States. It prepares students with strong backgrounds in music and the behavioral sciences to move forward into new careers in music therapy and leads to accreditation through the Canadian Association for Music Therapy (CAMT). The program is further unique in Canada in its situation within a Creative Arts Therapies department. Students have the opportunity for cross-pollination of ideas and experiences with those from the various creative arts therapies.Diplôme de 2e cycle en musicothérapieLa musicothérapie facilite l’épanouissement personnel et le changement en recourant à des expériences musicales expressives et réceptives. Dans une perspective de développement, de réadaptation, de psychothérapie et de bien-être, les musicothérapeutes interviennent auprès de leurs clients en favorisant l’expression et l’expérimentation de la musique.Le programme de diplôme de 28 crédits est unique en son genre au Canada et aux États-Unis. Il prépare les étudiants qui ont de solides connaissances en musique et en sciences comportementales à entamer une nouvelle carrière en musicothérapie, et leur donne accès à l’accréditation de l’Association de musicothérapie du Canada (AMC). Au Canada, ce programme est d’autant plus original qu’il relève du Département de thérapies par les arts. Les étudiants ont ainsi toute latitude pour échanger leurs idées et leurs expériences avec ceux des autres disciplines des thérapies par les arts.See full degree requirements in the Graduate CalendarAdmission Requirements. Entry into the program requires a bachelor’s/baccalaureate degree with courses in Music (24 credits, which must include 6 credits in Musicology and 12 credits in Music Theory, or equivalents); Psychology (24 credits, which must include courses in Introductory, Developmental, and Abnormal Psychology, Theories of Personality, and Research Methodology, or equivalents); and Introduction to Music Therapy (3 credits), or equivalent. Applicants must show evidence of: primary instrument/voice performance abilities at the level of completion of a bachelor’s degree in Music; piano performance abilities at Grade 6 Royal Conservatory of Music level, and fundamental guitar and voice skills. (Those invited for interview provide a video recording of performances of two selections on each instrument). Since enrolment is limited, applicants are selected on the basis of a past academic record of no less than a B- average (3.00 on a 4.30 scale), or equivalent, a 500-word letter of intent, a curriculum vitae; and three letters of recommendation. Previous experience in a clinical, rehabilitative or educational setting is expected. Direct experience with the therapeutic process is highly desirable.See how to applyPriority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.See the graduate calendar for course curriculum and descriptions.Please also take note of the sample course sequence.The practicum component of our creative arts therapies training programs provide students with the opportunity to apply the knowledge and skills that they are acquiring in their coursework.  It is the vehicle for integrating theory with clinical experience – a critical element in the development of the professional competence of an art therapist, drama therapist or music therapist.  Practicum includes both clinical experience and supervision.Clinical experience is acquired in a variety of agencies in the greater Montreal area, providing the student with practical application of art therapy, drama therapy or music therapy.  Supervision is provided at both the agency and at the University.In the Graduate Diploma in Music Therapy, each student is placed in one major placement per term, with a total of three different client populations over the course of the 12-month program. A student may be placed in one major and one minor placement concurrently where appropriate.Creative Arts Therapies classes are held in the Visual Arts Building on the downtown campus.Music Therapy classes are held in acoustically-designed studios equipped with superb sound and technological capabilities. Both of our music therapy studios house new acoustic pianos, one of them being a baby grand. A collection of diverse musical instruments (e.g., world drums, Orff, and other improvisational instruments) is available for classroom instruction as well as for student use in individual practice and at their practicum agencies.Lecture-based classes can be held in the seminar room, recently updated with new tables and chairs. All Creative Arts Therapies students can use the seminar for quiet study outside of class time and during business hours. Music Therapy students can use the studios for individual and group rehearsals.Learn more about facilities in the Faculty of Fine ArtsCareer opportunities for music therapists exist in a wide variety of healthcare and educational settings. These include psychiatric hospitals, rehabilitative facilities, medical hospitals, outpatient clinics, day care treatment centers, agencies serving persons with developmental disabilities, community mental health and wellness centers, drug and alcohol programs, senior centers, nursing homes, hospice programs, correctional facilities, halfway houses, schools, and private practice. Read about our alumni career stories.

For more information about career and employment opportunities:Please note: The Graduate Certificate in Music Therapy (21 credits) has been upgraded to a Graduate Diploma in Music Therapy (28 credits). This change is effective August 1, 2015.Email: Alyssa.Browning@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 4790Location: 
 1395 René Lévesque Blvd. W.,  VA 264
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 2M5Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityMusic Therapy (GrDip)Key resourcesProgram options & degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Internship/practicum
                
            
                
					
                    Facilities
                
            
                
					
                    Career prospects
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a career in music therapy?Program detailsRelated ProgramsGraduate Diploma (GrDip)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Application processSample classes