http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2014/02/12/nominate-concordiassustainabilitychampionsnow.html
We’re all invested in a more sustainable Concordia. Who doesn’t want a greener campus? But certain community members really lead the way.Next month, the university is recognizing the hard work, innovation and dedication of these students, faculty and staff members at its fourth annual Sustainability Champions Gala.The Concordia Sustainability Hub first organized the event to demonstrate the university’s gratitude towards its ambassadors of change — members of the Concordia community who are spearheading sustainability efforts, encouraging collaboration across departments and faculties, and raising the profile of green-minded work on campus.Do you have a co-worker who’s done a ton to reduce waste at the office? Do you know a student involved in a community development project, or a professor who’s rallying his or her classes in support of important sustainable initiatives?If so, nominate them for an award! The process is easy. Simply send a message to sustainabilitychampions@concordia.ca that describes how your nominee has contributed to the social, ecological or economic well-being of Concordia.All nominations are due by February 20. The awards will be given out at the gala, which happens on March 13 and is open to all. We look forward to seeing you there!The fourth annual Sustainability Champions Gala takes place on Thursday, March 13, from 5:30 to 7:30 p.m. at the Loyola Chapel on the Loyola Campus (7141 Sherbrooke St. W.).Learn more about Concordia’s Sustainability Hub.
        Shaping curriculum for a more sustainable world
    
        How Concordia’s business school became an art gallery
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityNominate Concordia’s sustainability champions nowNews
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424