http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/offices/sgs/individualized/research-currents.htmlThere are many areas of research in contemporary scholarship which cut across or transcend disciplinary boundaries. We call these areas research currents to highlight their dynamic and emergent quality. The Humanities PhD program (HUMA) and the Individualized Programs (INDI) are each in their own way integral to Concordia’s commitment to interdisciplinary collaboration and research.Please find below a selected list of these currents together with the names (and links to the personal websites) of some of the Concordia faculty members whose work has been influential in opening up and charting these fields. Master's levelTo explore the possibilities for collaboration at the Master’s level, you should:Doctoral levelIf you would like to pursue a doctoral degree in one of these currents, you have a choice:These research currents are illustrative, not prescriptive. There are many other potential avenues of research for you to explore at Concordia, and we welcome all manner of proposals.Arts in Health studies at Concordia draw from a variety of disciplines including the fine and performing arts, music therapy, drama therapy, art therapy, dance therapy, psychology, creative arts therapies, disability studies, education, health sciences, medicine, gender studies, sexualities studies, social gerontology, social work, and women’s studies. To study the creative arts therapies is to engage in a multidisciplinary endeavour, one that touches on questions central to current thought in a variety of disciplines and methods. For students wishing to conduct research at the PhD level on topics related to arts in health in general and the creative arts therapies in particular, Concordia’s interdisciplinary doctoral programs offer the possibility of devising a research program tailored to each individual student’s interests in consultation with two or three faculty members having expertise in the Arts in Health and related studies. Potential areas include, for example, health, creative practices, community, multiculturalism, violence/trauma, social justice and activism, gender, Guided Imagery and Music, and feminist therapy.Sample list of faculty membersCognitive science is the study of intelligence in humans, other animals, and in artificial systems. It includes the study of representations and processes involved in the acquisition, development, storage and use of information in areas such as language, perception, learning, memory, decision making, attention, knowledge, reasoning, consciousness, and the control of action. Some of the disciplines that bear on the interests of cognitive scientists include linguistics, psychology, philosophy, and computer science. Cognitive science is well represented in each of these disciplines at Concordia.Sample list of participating faculty membersSite of related interestConcordia Cognitive Science Group
Concordia Infant Research Laboratory
Centre for sensory StudiesConcordia researchers have developed some unique takes on the consumer society. Research on consumption at Concordia explores the anthropological, economical, historical, psychological, and sociological aspects of desiring, acquiring, using and disposing of things as well as less corporeal practices such as consumers’ engagement with sensory, hedonic, aesthetic and symbolic experiences. The affiliated faculty utilize a wide array of methodologies including experimental design, ethnographic fieldwork, long interviews, historical methods and surveys. The resulting body of work has numerous theoretical implications for interdisciplinary research on consumption, as well as practical and policy applications ranging from retail environment and product design to government regulation.Sample list of participating faculty membersRecently there has been a rapidly mounting interest in the notion of ‘curating’ as an artistic practice, as a cultural phenomenon, and as an academic discipline. Curating involves the presentation of information and ideas through assemblage, selection, and display or performance of “objects” in a range of media, including artifacts, art, images, sound, stories, media and texts. It also extends to discussion and debates. While the dictionary defines ’curator’ as “one who has the care and superintendence of something, especially a museum, zoo, or other place of exhibit,” the recent explosion of curatorial activity in ever-widening domains of practice make the role of the curator more visible and significant. Curatorial practice, and the analytical study of curating, habitually transcend and dissolve traditional disciplinary boundaries and intellectual fault lines; history, art, ethnology, science and multi-media design are often deployed side by side in a variety of formal and vernacular venues and exhibition spaces. The study of curatorial practice is therefore impossible without wide-ranging interdisciplinary studies in society and culture. At Concordia, scholars from a wide range of disciplines explore the role and significance of curatorial practice and theory for the production, dissemination and canonization of knowledge and ideas in the 21st century.Sample list of participating faculty membersSite of related interest:Sample list of participating faculty membersConcordia’s famed Hexagram Institute is the site of some of the most advanced research in digital culture in the world. Digital culture is the culture that comes after print, the culture we are in now - where everything and everyone can be virtually yours, and the distinction between life on- and offline is increasingly blurred. Discover the rich and variegated strands of research on /in digital culture at Concordia by exploring the Hexagram websiteSample list of participating faculty membersSite of related interest Concordia University has a tradition of research and inquiry on matters related to Indigenous peoples. As befits the inherently interdisciplinary nature of First Peoples Studies, Concordia researchers working in this area come from a variety of disciplines and blend different methodologies and theoretical frameworks both to reveal the richness and complexity of Indigenous peoples’ ways, and to develop new analytical and interpretive perspectives inspired by them as well as engaging with Indigenous research methodologies and decolonization of knowledge. The creation of a First Peoples Studies research current at the graduate level complements the undergraduate program in First Peoples Studies housed in the School of Community and Public Affairs. Concordia University is also a member and partner institution of DIALOG – Aboriginal People Research and Knowledge Network. Financially supported by the Social Science and Humanities Research Council and the Fonds de recherche du Québec - société et culture, this network offers Concordia faculty and students numerous opportunities for research, research development and interaction with other researchers interested in First Peoples Studies in Quebec, Canada and internationally.Sample list of participating faculty membersThe study of food and foodways has emerged as a vital topic of interdisciplinary research. Beginning a few years back with the creation of the Food Studies Research Group, Concordia faculty have been meeting regularly to exchange ideas on a wide range of food-related subjects, including:Sample list of participating faculty membersThe recently established Fonds Quebecois de Recherche en Société et Culture (FQRSC) Research Chair in Gambling is based in the Lifestyle and Addiction Research Lab. It is held by Sylvia Kairouz of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology. The Chair aims to generate a multi-dimensional and multi-level framework for gambling research, integrating individual, contextual and socio-cultural elements in sustaining prevention. Research into the effectiveness of diverse actions to prevent gambling addiction will be carried out in conjunction with key stakeholders at the provincial, federal and international level. Central to the Chair’s mission is developing a highly qualified next generation of researchers. Substantial resources for recruitment and training are reserved for this purpose in the Chair’s budget. Students interested in becoming players in this very dynamic new area of social scientific research should contact the Chair.Sample list of participating faculty membersSite of related interestDrawing on the expertise and resources of the Concordia research centre in Technoculture, Art and Games as well as numerous other departments across campus Game Studies and Design is a SIP current focused on the emergent interdisciplinary fields of game studies and game design. The home “base” for students working in this area is TAG, a collaborative-project based research centre with strong links to the Montreal game design community as well as Canadian and International digital culture and game studies research networks.Sample list of participating faculty membersSite of related interestEngineers and information scientists shape and are shaped by the social world in which they practice, and that world is becoming smaller and more interconnected. This observation opens a variety of research questions in the newly emerging field of global engineering. Global engineering research is focused in many areas, among them the following:The SIP Global Engineering current invites students to explore questions bearing on the relationship between society and technology, economics and engineering.Sample list of participating faculty membersSample list of participating faculty membersIranian Studies at Concordia are interdisciplinary, drawing on faculty expertise and student interests in the fields of religion, history, literature, linguistics, sociology, anthropology, women’s studies, art and architecture. The wide scope of Iran-related research and teaching at Concordia reflects the extraordinarily broad impact of Iranian civilization on the world’s diverse cultures, from the Balkans to China and India, over a span of some three thousand years.For students wishing to conduct research at the MA or PhD levels on Iran-related topics beyond the scope of existing departmental concentrations (such as Religion, or Film Studies), SIP offers the possibility to devise a program tailored to the student’s individual interests in consultation with faculty having exertise on Iran. Faculty strengths include Iran’s cultural history, including literature, art, and mythology, as well as contemporary Iranian society. In addition, Concordia is the only university in Canada to offer instruction in pre-Islamic Iranian languages such as Avestan, Pahlavi, Bactrian and Sogdian.Core facultyIreland’s rich culture and its complex history of two evolving linguistic, religious and social traditions offer opportunities to engage in a genuinely interdisciplinary study of a broad spectrum of topics. In studying Ireland’s literature, politics, ethnomusicology, dance, language, film, theatre, landscape, folklore, economics, women’s studies, religion, material culture and the visual arts, students will inevitably encounter a spectrum of larger issues. These include: colonialism and empire; nationalism and post-colonialism; cultural nationalism and linguistic preservation; rebellion, partition and political devolution; famine, emigration and exile; diasporic settlement and integration; mass trauma, cultural memory and public commemoration; sectarianism, conflict resolution and the politics of peace and reconciliation; the role of place, landscape and memory in identity formation; shifts in national and religious affiliations; and the transformation of regional economies within transnational political structures and the forces of globalization.To study Ireland, therefore, is not only to learn about a unique culture and a complicated history but, through a multidisciplinary framework, to become familiar with intellectual issues, academic debates, critical methodologies and research findings that can be relevant to, and instructive for, other national and immigrant groups.The participating faculty members include:Site of related interest:Law affects all aspects of our lives. It structures our social, economic and political relationships, it allocates and protects property entitlements, it defines and punishes crime and deviance, and it frames controversial ethical, moral and political debates. Research into "law and society" involves interdisciplinary inquiries into law not as a set of rules, but rather as a panoply of discursive practices which are both structured by and contribute to the structuring of the social context. Concordia researchers in various disciplines in the humanities and social sciences have opened up exciting new vistas in socio-legal studies, exploring such topics as front-line justice, cross-cultural jurispridence, the judicialization of politics, alternative perspectives on human rights,international immigration, and the evolution of environmental law.Sample list of participating faculty membersSite of related interestConcordia University has emerged as a global leader in oral history and community-engaged research-creation, learning with communities and not simply about them. Faculty members in this research stream are committed to participatory approaches to personal and place-based storytelling and pedagogy, exploring the points of connection between oral history, performance, digital media, public memory, architecture and the built environment, community art education, life writing, and other approaches. As performance studies theorist Della Pollock has written, the interdisciplinary field of oral history is the process of "making history in dialogue": it is "co-creative, co-embodied, specially framed, contextually and intersubjectively contingent, sensuous, vital, artful."Sample list of participating faculty membersSite of related interestPerformance Studies takes performance as an organizing concept for the study of a wide range of behavior both on stage and off, with a focus on embodied cultural practices and live events. Founded at the crossroads of 20th Century interdisciplinary and intercultural creation in the performing arts, and the “performative turn” in cultural, aesthetic, and political theory, Performance Studies draws on theories of embodiment, event, and agency much the way Cultural Studies emphasizes literature, media, and the concept of “text” in its analysis of a broad range of phenomena. A lens through which to view any social, cultural, political, or aesthetic process – from local, vernacular phenomena of everyday life to collective representations and formations of identity – performance has become a useful tool for Anthropology, Folklore, Sociology, Linguistics, Communications, Media Arts, and even Law, as well as in the more familiar fields of Theatre, Dance, or Music Studies. In more recent performance scholarship, the line between human and non-human performer has been decisively blurred, and Performance Studies has investigated the performing object, installation arts, immersive entertainments, and techniques of museum and exhibition display. The breadth and diversity of Performance Studies scholarship encourages crossover between the arts, humanities, and social sciences – between research and creation – even as it questions boundaries between subjects and objects of study, as well as the foundation and development of the academic disciplines themselves.Sample list of participating faculty membersSite of related interestRisk seems to be omnipresent in contemporary everyday life. From the moment we wake up to the moment we go to sleep (and even when we are asleep!) we may be engaged in some form of risk-taking or risk-management. What to wear, what to eat, who to befriend, what to watch on-line, how much to wager on that game, how fast to drive, how long to put off that assignment, how to feel, how much to drink at the pub—in all of these decisions we may make more or less conscious calculations about the kinds of risk we will take, and their consequences for us down the line. Sometimes we may be oblivious to the apparent risks we face in our daily lives. We may not think twice before jumping on our bikes without wearing a helmet, or basking in the sun without a hat. Equally, we may develop an inflated sense of the risks that surround us—we may be anxious about flying for example, when statistical data tell us that it is much less risky than driving.Risks also abound beyond our individual orbits. Organizations expend considerable energy to try to know and off-set risks. National governments, for example, attempt to risk-manage the economy by tweaking macro-economic levers. Cities zone areas according to whether they might be at risk of flooding, or fire, or other calamities. Some companies downplay risks associated with their products (think of tobacco companies, for instance). Others have a vested interest in amplifying the collective worry over this or that risk (think of media companies vying for audience attention, and insurance companies seeking to insure us against increasing numbers of uncertainties).Starting with the formation of  the CISSC Risk Research Working Group in 2015, scholars from across the disciplines of anthropology, applied human sciences, geography and sociology, as well as the fine arts, have turned their attention on studying and theorizing risk, and transformed it into one of the most dynamic areas of cross-disciplinary inquiry at Concordia.Sample list of participating faculty membersSite of related interestThe study of the senses and perception has traditionally been the preserve of psychologists. In recent years, scholars of other disciplines have “come to their senses,” and converged on the sensorium as an object of study. Concordia is at the forefront of this shift, which has resulted in the emergence of such subfields as the sociology, anthropology, and philosophy of the senses. Sensory studies is the name commonly ascribed to this emergent domain of inquiry. 
Concordia researchers in the humanities and social sciences ask such questions as: Do men’s and women’s senses differ? How might the number and order of the senses vary across cultures? Why the “race to embrace the senses” in contemporary marketing? How can the philosophy of mind be enriched through taking the moving, sensing body as its point of departure? 
Concordia is also at the leading edge of much research in the development and application of new sensing technologies. From the design of sentient buildings and clothing to the incorporation of sensors and elaborate computerized programs into “live” performances, Concordians are constantly expanding the bounds of sense.Sample list of participating faculty membersSite of related interestSexuality studies at Concordia draw from a variety of disciplines including psychology, political science, history, communications, literary studies, sociology and anthropology, film studies, art history, health sciences, medicine, social work and women’s studies. Sexuality has been shown to have intimate links with questions of epistemology (Sedgwick), political and social regulation (Foucault), culture, technology and representation (de Lauretis), creative process (Bataille), and the very sources of the psyche (Freud). To study sexuality, therefore, is to engage in a multidisciplinary enterprise, one that touches on questions central to twentieth- and twenty-first-century thought in a variety of disciplines and methods. For students wishing to conduct research at the MA or PhD level on topics related to sexualities, the Special Individualized Programs and/or Humanities Doctoral Programs offer the possibility of devising a research program tailored to each individual student’s interests in consultation with two or three faculty members having expertise in sexuality studies. Potential areas include, for example, health, the body, work, sexual diversity, and sex and artistic and cultural production.Core facultyHow would the world be different if we started from the position of “the Other” rather than from Self? What could be created and built if we started from a place of difference and diversity, rather than our commonalities? What would happen if we talked more about our aspirations, hopes and dreams instead of our problems or deficits? Participatory action researchers engage communities and organizations in positive generative dialogues to craft real solutions to real problems, and at the same time contribute to new social scientific knowledge, social well-being, and social justice. The Centre for Human Relations and Community Studies is a university hub for such interdisciplinary yand transdisciplinary issue-driven community-engaged scholarship.Sample list of participating faculty membersSites of related interestIn the course of the last thirty years, a number of scholars in cinema and media studies, as well as in the humanities and social sciences at large, have challenged the centrality given to “the visual” in our social and cultural lives by pointing out that sound plays an equally important role in our experience and understanding of the world. The choice of multidisciplinary approaches is required by the parameters of this domain of inquiry, as the object of study is never sound alone, but rather the relationships that hold or emerge between sound and the visual medium with which it comes into interaction.Sample list of participating faculty membersAt Concordia University, sustainability is more than just “the capacity to endure.” Sustainability is the study of dynamic social and ecological systems, focused on the intersection of social, economic, and environmental needs, and striving for the integration of science, policy and values. It is a solutions-oriented response to the most pressing global issues of the 21st century, including: climate change, biodiversity, environmental degradation, and community development. This field crosses many areas of study, requiring broad knowledge of biology, environmental management, business, organizational change, green technology, ecological design, public policy, community development, sociology and ethics among others.The SIP Sustainability and Environmental Studies Research Current cultivates a holistic, integrated perspective while allowing students to focus on the specialized disciplinary knowledge of their choosing. Concordia is home to experts across the faculties engaged in research that advances the field of sustainability, and the university has established a reputation on the ground as an active leader of campus sustainability management.Participating faculty membersAt Concordia University, Synthetic Biology is more than a specialization within Biology. It is, in fact, a thoroughly interdisciplinary program of study and research, bringing together ideas from Engineering and Biology or Biochemistry, with the purpose of synthesizing novel and useful materials, methods and machines - whether living or inanimate - that advance the science and technology of Engineering and/or Biology.This program allows the student to study and do research leading to a Masters or PhD certification. The courses can be selected from a suggested set of courses that have been carefully compiled to provide a diverse yet cohesive programme of study, in preparation for a masters or doctoral thesis. The most interesting part of such a program is a research thesis (or hypothesis) that the student, guided by qualified supervisors, formulates and tests, either for purpose of discovery or innovation. Ideas for research projects come from - but not only from - Metabolic Engineering, Synthetic Gene Networks, Genetic Therapy, Bioinformatics and Bio-Nanotechnology. Ultimately, what this programme aims to do is generate novel research and train the researchers in a leading - and fast expanding - area of human scientific and technological enterprise.The INDI-Synthetic Biology research programme is managed in conjunction with the Centre for Applied Synthetic Biology at Concordia University; a centre of scholarship and research with professors from diverse specializations, faculties and universities. It is suggested that potential students discuss their own research ideas with one or more of the researchers at CASB. The professors will also likely have their own favourite projects, which they would explain to you. If you have a deep interest in Synthetic Biology; if you have the right background (or the willingness to acquire it) and you can work hard on risky yet ultimately rewarding research endeavors, then this is the program for you.Students interested in joining the INDI-Synthetic Biology programme at Concordia should start by reading and possibly following the instructions provided in this document INDI-SyntheticBiologySample list of participating faculty membersIn a post-9/11 world, violence in our relationships, institutions, communities and collective memory has drawn new attention. Scholarship,accordingly, is attempting to find order in the chaos emerging from many global horrors. The Concordia researchers who participate in this current examine the impact of violence on individuals, communities, organizations, and societies. Research in this field promises to increase our understanding of: trauma, resilience and reconciliation at an individual and systemic level; individual and community capacity and social capital to process, memorialize, seek justice, and heal; the resources and supports that enhance the capacity of individuals and communities to create or restore a livable balance after violence; explore provocative public memory-work, community interventions, and arts-based methods of healing.Sample list of participating faculty membersThe study of human settlements has long been a preoccupation of researchers, policy-makers, and activists. Under what circumstances do people organize themselves in permanent locations? How does this organization typically take place? How does life in such settlements differ from life outside them? These very general questions have given rise to much more specific ones under current circumstances. Which of these living arrangements are most sustainable? What are the governance challenges emerging within them? or How are settlements interdependent – at regional, national, or international levels? The internal dynamics of urban places are increasingly the focus of researchers, grappling with economic and demographic changes, globalization and new technologies. The Urban/Rural Research Current provides a framework for examining all of these types of questions. By virtue of its focus this Current integrates work from a large number of disciplines and research areas, including sociology, anthropology, urban studies and planning, economics, political science, history, environment, and communication studies.Sample list of participating faculty membersSite of related interestWomen’s Studies at Concordia are interdisciplinary, drawing on faculty expertise in fields such as history, anthropology, sociology, community and public affairs, education, political science, and communications. The wide scope of this research reflects the broad impact of feminism and the increasing attention paid to questions of social justice, which are at the core of women’s studies. Women’s studies are underpinned by an understanding that social inequality is produced through interlocking systems of oppression and that the State, nationalism and imperialism are central in producing and sustaining asymmetrical power relations, such as those between men and women or those between people in the global north and those in the global south. Women’s studies, therefore, extends beyond the study of “the condition of women” to provide theoretical and methodological tools to better conceptualize a wide array of social issues as well as to fight for progressive change. The research strengths of Concordia’s faculty cover such topics as reproduction, sexuality, violence, health, work, poverty, militarism, media and cultural productions, politics, community organizing, development and globalization.Core facultyYouth are important actors in our society. Research on “youth in society” involves interdisciplinary inquiries into how youth are being shaped by their environment, and in turn shape society. Concordia researchers in various disciplines have developed keyl approaches to studying the diversity of youth experiences, the challenges and opportunities in transitioning from childhood to adulthood, and the various mediums used by youth to define and contribute to social change such as popular theatre, environmental action, and community development.List of participating faculty members© Concordia UniversitySchool of Graduate Studies
 Guy Metro Building, GM 930.01, 1550 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.

Phone: 514-848-2424, ext. 3800   Fax: 514-848-2812Concordia UniversityResearch currentsCross-disciplinary research areasArts in health
                
            
                
					
                    Cognitive science
                
            
                
					
                    Consumption
                
            
                
					
                    Critical curatorial studies
                
            
                
					
                    Development studies
                
            
                
					
                    Digital culture*
                
            
                
					
                    First people's studies
                
            
                
					
                    Food studies*
                
            
                
					
                    Gambling
                
            
                
					
                    Game studies and design
                
            
                
					
                    Global engineering
                
            
                
					
                    Globalization and Transnationalism*
                
            
                
					
                    Iranian studies*
                
            
                
					
                    Irish studies*
                
            
                
					
                    Law and society*
                
            
                
					
                    Oral History
                
            
                
					
                    Performance studies*
                
            
                
					
                    Risk
                
            
                
					
                    Sensory studies
                
            
                
					
                    Sexualities*
                
            
                
					
                    Social transformation
                
            
                
					
                    Sound studies
                
            
                
					
                    Sustainability and environmental studies
                
            
                
					
                    Synthetic biology
                
            
                
					
                    Trauma and resilience*
                
            
                
					
                    Urban/rural studies
                
            
                
					
                    Women's studies
                
            
                
					
                    Youth in societyConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424