http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/software-engineering-meng.htmlThe Master of Software Engineering program prepares highly-qualified candidates to work confidently with software engineering applications in business and industry.The MEng is a course-based program for practicing software engineers and is open to candidates interested in either full- or part-time study. The MEng program enables students to apply their professional experiences and broaden their understanding of advanced software engineering and other technological concepts. Students enhance their analytic and design skills and improve their ability to present technical material in written form. The normal duration of the program is two years. Software engineers apply engineering principles and practices to design, test, operate and maintain computer software. Graduates of the Master's program are trained to work on all aspects of the software product life cycle. They learn how to develop high-capacity computer software in a controlled, systematic and quantifiable manner and ensure it is reliable, efficient and economic.Requirements for the DegreeAdmission Requirements. Applicants to the MEng Program must hold a bachelor’s degree in engineering or equivalent with high standing. Applicants with a bachelor’s degree in architecture with high engineering content may also be considered for the MEng program. Such students will be required to enrol in an extended program. The Faculty Graduate Studies Committee will determine the acceptability of an applicant for admission to the program and may require an applicant to take specified undergraduate courses in order to qualify for acceptance. Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be required to take such courses in addition to their regular graduate program. Applicants with deficiencies in their undergraduate preparation may be required to take a qualifying program. An ability to write simple programs in a standard computer language will be assumed. Students lacking this skill will be required to register for the appropriate course. This course will be taken in addition to regular degree requirements.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Sample classesCurriculumTo see curriculum requirements, please visit the section above on degree requirements. For topic area course lists, please visit the Graduate Calendar.For course descriptions, please visit the Graduate Calendar. Graduate students of computer science and software engineering may apply for positions as teaching assistants within the department. All candidates must have good language skills. Learn more about Teaching Assistantships.Email: Edwina@cs.concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 3042Location: 
 1515 St. Catherine W., EV 3.150
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 2W1Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversitySoftware Engineering (MEng)Key resourcesDegree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Teaching and research assistantships
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a Master's in software engineering?Program detailsMaster of Engineering (MEng)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424