http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/mba/beyond-the-classroom/speaker-series.htmlThe John Molson Graduate Student Association (JMGSA) Speaker Series is a student-run initiative that organizes speaker events for students. Speaker Series events are open to all JMSB graduate students. The purpose of the Speaker Series is to inspire and motivate students by providing an opportunity to interact with prominent Canadian and international business leaders in a unique and intimate setting. These events expose students to local and international business environments and can help form decisions regarding future career paths and direction.  Students will have the opportunity to realize what it takes to make an organization work and how classroom theory is put into practice by industry leaders. Inspiration, evolution and preparation are the underlining objectives that drive the JMGSA Speaker Series towards providing students with an impactful and rewarding experience.The JMGSA is managed by an engaged and diverse team of four graduate students from the John Molson School of Business.Julia brings her extensive experience in project management, public speaking and events to the JMGSA Speakers Series. Julia is a former performance ski coach and recognizes the impact positive contribution can have on a team. It is for this reason that she is eager to lead a strong JMGSA Speakers Series Executive and make a significant impact on peers’ JMSB experience. Julia began the MBA program in January 2015 and intends to graduate in 2016.Yoana was born in Sofia, Bulgaria and moved to New York State where she completed her undergraduate degree in communications. Yoana is a meticulous planner full of positive energy and wisdom acquired through planning and executing numerous public events for non-profit organizations in all three countries. She looks forward to a great year full of dynamic speakers who will inspire and challenge all of us.     Eamon has over ten years of team management, sales, and successful business ownership experience in a period plagued by economic drought. This experience, combined with a relentless work ethic and optimistic, outgoing persona has allowed Eamon to hone his skills in being an effective leader, innovator, and communicator. These skills produce an unrivaled edge in marketing. Eamon’s background includes a BA in political science, Spanish, and international business. He started the MBA program at JMSB in the winter of 2015, and looks forward to contributing to student life at the university with the Speakers Series team.Yao is a student in the MSc program. She has worked for the GradProSkills Team, the Student Recruitment Office and the MSc Society. Her fields of expertise include finance analysis, corporate finance, risk management and crowd funding. Yao is currently doing research for her thesis and pursing the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) charter and Financial Risk Manager (FRM) designation. Excited by the opportunity to make positive contributions to student life at JMSB, she enthusiastically joined the JMGSA Speaker Series team. She started the MSc program at JMSB in September of 2014 and expects to graduate in summer 2016. jmgsa.speaker.series@gmail.com© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityJMGSA Speaker SeriesJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            Meet the 2015-2016 teamJoin the conversationContactConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424President - Julia WoolseyVice President of Events - Yoana TurninVice President of Marketing - Eamon KhalajVice President of Finance - Yao Ding