http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/mba/beyond-the-classroom/small-business-consulting/team.htmlDiego Ramos has over five years’ experience in accounting, finance, human resources and marketing in diverse South American markets. After working in a variety of industries, Diego specialized in business strategy while working as a management consultant. He has developed training programs for business and leadership development, created quality management control systems and process improvement plans, and has implemented strategic plans for small and large companies.Lee Ho has over seven years’ experience in the transportation, manufacturing, technology and aerospace industries. His diverse skill set includes business process improvement, Lean Transformation and customer account management. He holds a BEng in industrial engineering and a graduate diploma in computer science from Concordia University.Dana Giacobbi has over five years’ experience in the fields of social innovation, sustainability, international development and manufacturing, in both for-profit and not-for-profit contexts. He has designed programs, structured small organizations, and helped leaders in many roles develop their strategic capabilities. He has delivered large-scale, multi-stakeholder projects on tight deadlines for. Dana holds a master’s of mechanical engineering degree from McGill University.Julia Woolsey has over four years’ experience in the health administration field. As a project coordinator, Julia specialized in planning, internal and external communications and stakeholder engagement. A major component of her role was to ensure content accuracy through various forms of research and consultation. Julia is a member of the co-op program and has completed work terms in strategy for an aerospace firm and corporate marketing and communications for a global food industry provider. Julia holds an English degree from Wilfrid Laurier University.Phone: 514-848-2424 ext. 7593
Fax: 514-848-4597
 Email: csbcb@concordia.caCivic Address
1450 Guy Street
Suite MB 6.305 (see map) 
Montreal, Quebec, H3H 0A1Mailing address
1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. West
Suite MB 6.305
Montreal, Quebec, H3G 1M8© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityOur teamJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessContact usConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424