http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/mba/the-jmsb-advantage.htmlLocated in the vibrant heart of downtown Montreal, Concordia University’s John Molson School of Business (JMSB) is one of the leading business schools in Canada. The excellence of the John Molson MBA is consistently recognized by some of the world’s most respected business school rankings.Our program is ranked 88th in the world and 4th in Canada in The Economist’s “Which MBA?” survey and 24th in the world and 5th best in Canada by Bloomberg Business Week.Accredited in 1997 by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), JMSB was the first business school in Montreal, and the fourth in Canada, to receive this distinction. Accreditation is a mark of excellence for business schools, and it ensures that JMSB is held to the highest in business education standards.
Our internationally-renowned faculty members are constantly pushing the boundaries of business research, publishing widely in peer-reviewed journals or holding senior positions on editorial boards. Many are active and successful in the business world, bringing their experience into the classroom every day.
Our MBA is a flexible part-time or full-time program. Full-time students can complete their degree in as little as as sixteen months; part-time students in as little as three years. Classes are scheduled during the day and evening, typically, Monday through Friday, with some classes also offered on the weekend.
Many JMSB professors maintain close links with the business community, frequently acting as consultants to the country’s top enterprises. Our students are connected as well and have an average work experience of six years when they enter the program. Many of JMSB’s 50,000 alumni, 4,500 of which are MBA graduates, maintain connections with the university as advisors, employers, volunteers and guest lecturers. This provides a real advantage and a real benefit to MBA students, over 87% of whom find employment within three months of graduation.
The diversity of our student body creates a uniquely challenging and stimulating learning environment. All of our students have solid work experience and more than half have international work experience, bringing a global perspective to our classrooms and preparing all of our students to function in a global, multicultural business environment. 
The dedicated Graduate Career Advisor at Career Management Services meets MBA students on an individual basis to discuss career issues and to personally get to know the candidates. Your key to success in career management is clearly to know yourself and then evaluate your value to the marketplace. 
JMSB students make lifelong connections to a strong MBA alumni network of 50,000 graduates, many of whom hold leadership positions around the world. Among Canadian universities, Concordia has the highest number of graduates holding a CEO position in a Global Fortune 500 company, as listed by Fortune magazine in 2006. 
Small class sizes and an impressive thirty-to-one student to professor ratio ensure that our students get one-on-one time with professors, as well as the benefit of focused, relevant class discussions in an intimate setting. 
The MBA program takes a practical, hands-on approach to business education. Our MBA curriculum emphasizes the use of timely case studies to present material in a way that closely resembles how the business world presents situations to senior managers.For more detailed information about our MBA program, please see our MBA program overview.Montreal is an enchanting blend of old world charm and carefree joie de vivre… with a healthy dose of rebellious spirit.Safe, clean and cosmopolitan, Montreal offers a high quality of living at a low cost. In an affordable city with a fun atmosphere, Montrealers thrive on great food, sports and culture. We have the best bike paths in North America, and convenient public transportation.The Economist Intelligence Unit rated Montreal as the world’s best city to get an overseas education. QS rates it the best in North America.It’s an ideal place to live and study.Attend an info session/eventConnect with a recruiterDownload program brochureContact us© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityThe full-time & part-time MBA advantageJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            Get startedEventsJoin the conversationConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424A World-Class and Internationally Ranked ProgramAACSB AccreditedTop-Tier FacultyFlexible ScheduleConnected to the Business CommunityDiverse Student BodyCareer Management ServicesStrong Alumni NetworkSmall Class SizePractical ApproachInternational Setting