http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/calendar/current/sgs/unit.htmlAdmission Requirements. Applicants must be students completing either a Doctor of/Doctorate in Philosophy degree or a Master of/Magisteriate in Fine Arts (Studio Arts) degree at Concordia University with a minimum cumulative grade point average of 3.00 on a scale of 4.30. Normally applicants have obtained candidacy in their respective degree programs.  Applicants may also be registered Post-Doctoral Fellows at Concordia University with a minimum cumulative grade point average of 3.00 on a scale of 4.30, or equivalent in their last completed degree.Applicants are required to submit a letter of support from the chair of the department. Applicants must have already completed one teaching assistantship and have identified a faculty member from their discipline to act as a teaching mentor. Candidates are also required to submit a 500- to 750-word statement of their teaching philosophy, teaching experiences and a brief description of the course that they wish to teach as part of the internship requirement.Requirements for the Graduate CertificateCredits. A fully qualified candidate is required to complete a minimum of 15 credits:Residency. The minimum residence requirement is one term of full-time study or its equivalent in part-time study.Time Limit. The time limit to complete the program is five terms.Academic RegulationsGPA Requirements. Candidates must complete 15 credits, with a 3.00 cumulative grade point average (GPA) based on a minimum of six credits. Students whose GPA falls below 3.00 are considered to be on academic probation during the following review period.Failure Regulations. Students whose GPA falls below 3.00 for two consecutive review periods are withdrawn from the program.Graduation Requirement. In order to graduate, students must have a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.00.CoursesUNIT 601 Teaching and Learning in Higher Education (3 credits)
This seminar course is designed as a survey at an advanced level of the theory and practice of higher education pedagogy through an examination of the existing literature. Topics may include but are not limited to student learning assessment, course design, teaching strategies, student diversity, technology in the classroom and reflective practice.UNIT 602 Development of a University Course (3 credits)
Prerequisite: ETEC 613, UNIT 601.
In this directed study course, students develop the objectives, outline, content, notes, assignments, and assessment plan for the course that they will teach during UNIT 603, Internship in University Teaching. The prepared materials are evaluated by the students’ teaching mentor. This course is graded on a pass/fail basis.
Note: Normally, this course will be one available via the graduate calendar or as a slot course, and not a new course which would require curriculum approval.UNIT 603 Internship in University Teaching (6 credits)
Prerequisite: ETEC 613, UNIT 601 and 602.
This internship requires students to teach one 3-credit university course in their discipline using the materials developed in UNIT 602, Development of a University Course. Students develop a teaching portfolio which includes a teaching statement, an explanation of pedagogical practices used in the course, self-evaluation of the teaching, students’ evaluations of the course, and a plan for improvements to the course content and teaching practices. This internship is graded on a pass/fail basis.Top© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
University Teaching (UNIT)Program
Graduate Certificate in University TeachingUNIT Program WebsiteConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424