http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/university-teaching.htmlThe Graduate Certificate in University Teaching is a 15-credit program designed for current doctoral candidates at Concordia University.  The aim of the program is for learners to gain in-depth knowledge about pedagogical practices in post-secondary education and to develop teaching skills in delivering a university course within their area of expertise. Benefiting from the mentorship of experts in university pedagogy and a discipline-specific faculty member, admitted candidates will expand their knowledge about theories of learning and instructional design, as well as enhance their skills in analyzing literature relevant to teaching and learning in higher education.  Candidates will also learn to identify appropriate educational resources relevant to their disciplines and make appropriate planning, design and classroom management decisions. All candidates will be required to apply the knowledge and skills acquired to the design, delivery and evaluation of a 3-credit university course.The Graduate Certificate in University Teaching offers a competitive edge to Concordia PhD candidates seeking a tenure-track position. It provides these candidates an opportunity to gain in-depth knowledge and skills related to university teaching by engaging in an interdisciplinary program of study. Concordia’s Graduate Certificate is grounded in an apprenticeship model through which students are partnered with discipline-specific faculty members, teaching fellows from Concordia’s four faculties as well as teaching and learning consultants. Finally, the capstone requirement to design, develop, implement and evaluate a full 3-credit university course provides invaluable teaching experience within the student’s area of specialization.All applications must be submitted to the Graduate Admissions Application Centre.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.UNIT 603 Internship in University Teaching (6 credits)This internship requires students to teach one 3-credit university course in their discipline using the materials developed in UNIT 602, Development of a University Course. Students develop a teaching portfolio which includes a teaching statement, an explanation of pedagogical practices used in the course, self-evaluation of the teaching, students’ evaluations of the course, and a plan for improvements to the course content and teaching practices. This internship is graded on a pass/fail basis.Email: unit@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 3894Location: 
 1550 de Maisonneuve W., GM 930.03
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 1N2Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityUniversity Teaching (Grad.Cert.)Why study at Concordia?
                
            
                
					
                    Degree options
                
            
                
					
                    Sample classes
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty research interests
                
            
                
					
                    Assistantships & internships
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a Graduate Certificate in University Teaching?Program DetailsGraduate Certificate (Grad. Cert.)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424