http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/mba/beyond-the-classroom/van-berkom.htmlConcordia University’s John Molson School of Business (JMSB) and Van Berkom and Associates Inc. are delighted to be collaborating on the Van Berkom - JMSB Case Competition.This event, a premier case competition focused on small cap investment, will provide graduate-level business students with an opportunity to showcase their ability to analyze financial business cases, develop strategic recommendations and apply the academic skills they have gained in the classroom.This case competition is inspired by the investment philosophy and strategy of Van Berkom and Associates Inc., a respected specialist investment firm solely dedicated to the management of small-cap portfolios. Their involvement in this competition acts as a valuable complement to the business education of the participating students.  Participants will be expected to propose investment strategies that reflect the rigorous research, analysis, risk management and selection processes that allow small-cap firms to maintain long-term growth.

JMSB is proud of its reputation for organizing high-quality case competitions that focus on delivering enriching experiences for students. We are confident that this event will deliver very rewarding learning and network-building experiences that contribute to our participants’ professional development.

Our case competition is open to both undergraduate and graduate business students with a strong finance background. Up to nine teams will be selected for the final competition following a qualifying round.The focus of this competition is small-cap portfolio management and value investing. The quantitative analysis required for each case will be extensive. Qualitative elements, however, will be essential in differentiating teams who can demonstrate a thorough understanding of the complexities of small–cap investment management. Judges for the competition will be professionals working in money management.
March 24 & 25, 2017Financial analysis, small cap portfolio investment management decision-making
Qualifying cases will be sent to registered teams in January 2017. The qualifying cases will be judged by a panel of judges and the top nine teams will be invited to travel to Montreal to compete in the Van Berkom JMSB Case Competition. Schools may send multiple submissions should they wish, but only one team will be accepted from each school. The final competition will involve two days of intense case solving. Judges will assign scores on each day and the cumulative total of each day will determine the winning teams, to be announced at the end of day two.Up to $6,000 in cash prizes will be awarded to the top three finalists.
The number of participating schools will be limited to nine to maintain a high quality learning experience. Schools from around the world that offer specializations in finance and portfolio management are highly encouraged to submit a team and complete a qualification case.Teams will consist of three to four members and can be comprised of both graduate and undergraduate level students. Coaches are also invited to attend the competition should they wish.See the competition website.The Van Berkom - JMSB Case Competition will be held at Concordia University's John Molson School of Business in the heart of downtown Montreal and the Quartier Concordia. The Molson building (MB) is easily accessible by bus, metro and taxi. See map.Mailing address: 
John Molson School of Business 
1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. West
Suite MB 6.321
Montreal, QC H3G 1M8 
 
 Civic Address: 
1450 Guy Street
Montreal, Quebec, H3H 0A1 
 
 Tel: 514-848-2424, ext. 4127 
info@vanberkomcc.com© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityVan Berkom-JMSB Case CompetitionJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            Follow the competition onlineWhenFocusFormatPrizesParticipating schoolsTeam requirementsCompetition location
Contact usConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424