http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/library/guides/womens-studies/wsdb290.htmlCourse Reserves can help you obtain required material for your courses, online or in person at the library.Books can provide more in-depth information than articles, with more history and context.
You can use our DISCOVERY SEARCH box to find books but DON'T STOP there!Also:**TIP/WARNING:
Though books (or book chapters/essays) can prove to be useful sources for your research paper, it will take more judgment and evaluation on your part to determine if they qualify as appropriate quality sources. See Evaluating Sources for some general guidelines.Back to topArticles can provide more recently-published material that books, on more specific scholarly topics.Use our Discovery Search to find both books and articles from hundreds of sources, on any topic.

But DON'T STOP THERE! -- also try any of these databases to identify articles in peer-reviewed journals  related to your research topic:HISTORICAL DATABASES:**TIP: you can search any of the 6 databases above together by selecting "Choose Databases"TIPSBack to topFor help formatting bibliography references and in-text citations, see our Citation & Style Guides, especially these popular formats:RefWorks can also help you keep track of your references and automate the formatting of bibliographies.Back to topEncyclopedias can help you explore the broader issues and themes related to your research paper topic from an academic point of view.**WARNING/TIP: Though they do NOT count as one of the 4-5 required titles for your annotated bibliography, encyclopedia articles often include bibliographies listing important books and articles relating to your topic. See Help ACCESSING the texts to find out how to get these books and articlesBack to top
 A small set of specialized scholarly journals contain ONLY articles which have as their main task to review or survey the literature related to a research topic. While none of these are specfically women's studies journals, you can still take a look at these: Back to topYour professor's instructions should always be the first criteria in determining what qualifies as an appropriate source. If you feel you need additional guidance in this area, however, you might find some relevant tips in the guides below.The following library guides might provide some help in evaluatiing these kinds of sources:Back to top You can always get help with this from one of our ASK A LIBRARIAN services.To find out ON YOUR OWN if you can access the text of any source, you must first determine whether it is a BOOK, BOOK CHAPTER or JOURNAL ARTICLE.First try typing all or part of the reference into our Discovery Search box  -- it may be as easy as that!If that doesn't work, enter the name of the JOURNAL (not the title of the article) using:...and then select the year, volume and issue that you need as indicated in your citation.**POSSIBLE SHORTCUTS:For journals or journal issues that are NOT available online, you can siumply fill out an Article Delivery Form.If the citation you have is unclear or incomplete, and you still can't tell whether it is a journal, book, or book chapter:Back to top Back to topBack to top Back to research guide home© Concordia UniversityWebster Library
Physical Address:
1400 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Mailing Address:
1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8
Telephone (1) 514-848-2424 ext. 7777
See on mapVanier Library
7141 Sherbrooke Street West
Montreal, Quebec, Canada, H4B 1R6
Telephone (1) 514-848-2424 ext. 7766
See on mapThanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback.Concordia UniversityWSDB 290 AA: 
 Library Tips for your Term PaperLibrary
            
                Library
            On this page...Feedback formsOnline Required Course Readings
Find Books:  Discovery Search
 and CLUES
Find Articles: Discovery Search
 and Databases
Bibliography & In-Text Citations Format
Encyclopedias for Additional Context
Literature Reviews for Even More ContextHelp evaluating sourcesFinding & accessing the texts you wantRelated library services — all free
More library helpConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424IS IT SCHOLARLY/ACADEMIC/PEER-REVIEWED?WHAT ABOUT WEBSITES AND OTHER INTERNET SOURCES? Is it a book, book chapter or journal article??To access books & book chapters:To access journal articles:Not sure what it is?For Your Term Paper and Proposal:You might also need: