http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/alumni-friends/about-us/your-privacy.htmlWe are committed to protecting your personal information and privacy.Concordia University alumni, donors, and recipients of our email campaigns have chosen to provide us with certain personal information. The following principles outline Advancement and Alumni Relations' collection and use of this information:What personal information do we collect and maintain?We typically collect demographics, registration information related to Concordia events and records of giving activities. Alumni and donors often inform us about their preferred address, home or business, and provide us with their business information and names of family members and spouses.How is your personal information used?Advancement and Alumni Relations collects your personal information mainly so we can stay in touch with you. We communicate with you to keep you informed about university events, news and announcements, surveys and fundraising appeals.For donors, we also issue recognition letters and tax receipts. For alumni, we also keep you abreast of alumni programs and services that we deem will be of interest to you, including Homecoming, reunions, events and other activities.Occasionally, we partner with companies that offer alumni benefits through their products. Concordia University authorizes its alumni service partners to offer services targeted to specific alumni groups through direct mail, email or telemarketing campaigns. The University does not provide confidential information directly to these companies. Instead, bonded, third-party mailing houses and telemarketing firms act as agents of the University for the purpose of conducting these marketing campaigns. The information they receive from Concordia University is used only by them and for the purpose for which access was granted.At any time, you may request that we refrain from using your personal information for any of the purposes outlined above.Since some communications programs may already be in progress at the time such a request is received, you may continue to receive communications for a short time while the change is being implemented.To update your communication preferences, contact us at:Advancement and Alumni Relations
1250 Guy St., Suite 520
Montreal, QC H3H 2T4
Phone: 514-848-2424, ext. 4856
Fax: 514-848-2826
alumni@concordia.ca© Concordia UniversityAdvancement & Alumni Relations, 514-848-2424, ext. 4856Concordia UniversityYour privacyAlumni & friends
            
                Alumni & friends
            Opting outConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424