http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2016/11/29/5-reasons-to-attend-orientation-2017.html While beginning your university career can be incredibly exciting, it can also feel a little overwhelming, given all there is to take in.That’s why Concordia holds a comprehensive program of orientation activities aimed at connecting incoming students to their new environment.From opportunities to get acquainted with your faculty and future classmates, to sessions providing tips and strategies on how to achieve academic success, Orientation offers you a great way to start your educational journey on the right foot.It’s also a perfect chance to familiarize yourself with Concordia’s full range of student services.Here are 5 great reasons to attend Winter Orientation 2017.Whether you’re looking for the perfect study spot, the shuttle bus stop, or the best eateries in town, student-led tours are the way to go.Each year mentors from Concordia’s Student Success Centre are on hand to show new students how to navigate the university’s two campuses, Loyola and the downtown Sir George Williams Campus. Beyond getting to know your way around Concordia’s physical space, New Student Tours are also a great opportunity to ask questions and get information on student life.Sign up now for a tour!Believe it or not, there’s more to university than just going to class.As a Concordian you’ll have plenty of opportunities to get involved in the student community. Learn about the university’s wide array of on-campus activities, student services and student associations at the Discover Concordia Information Fair, which takes place on the seventh floor of the Henry F. Hall (H) Building.Moreover, Concordia makes it easy to get involved within the wider Montreal community through its LIVE Volunteer Resource Centre. Don’t miss your chance to meet up with a Volunteer Ambassador and find an experience that is right for you.Lecture notes, time management, required reading, course work, time crunch, midterms, finals — welcome to a whole new academic world, with its own vocabulary.Hit the ground running by attending Start Right, a one-day session designed to set you on the path to success. Get pro tips on everything from note taking to improving your memorization and academic writing.Start Right takes place on Monday December 19, 2016, in the Alumni Auditorium (H-110, in the the Henry F. Hall Building).Also, be sure to take advantage of My Action Plan (MAP) to Success, a personalized orientation program that focuses on your very own strengths and weaknesses in order to build individualized strategies designed to assure you get the most of your learning experience.Find out more about learning support at your Student Success Centre.
 Attending orientation is a great way to make initial connections with important people in your faculty, as well as with your fellow students.Once again, Discover Concordia offers new students a chance to network in a lax setting before the beginning of class, while also getting the lowdown on academic requirements, resources and student services available to them throughout their degree or certificate.Did I mention there will be finger food and prizes?Graduate School Base Camp on January 20 is the perfect way to lay the foundation for a positive and productive graduate school experience.A myriad of workshops will be presented during which incoming grad students can learn fundamental skills, learn the ropes in terms of university rules, and be pointed to key resources.Graduate Student Orientation, from 2–5 p.m. on January 16, is another great way to learn all about services to support your success. It’s open to all new graduate students (full-time, part-time or independent).
Find out more about Concordia’s Student Success Centre and GradProSkills.
        5 great places to start your student job hunt at Concordia
    
        8 awesome Concordia student services
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia University5 reasons to attend Winter Orientation 2017News
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsLatest storiesMost popularOPINION: Big Pharma’s troubles are good news for innovationConcordia receives funding for 5 Canada Research ChairsThe fight against fake newsConcordia receives $2 million to advance smart-grid technology‘Student success is more gratifying than any prize’13 essential tips for exam successTo nap or not to nap? Sleep tips for ConcordiansJason Camlot wins the Donald Gray Prize for best Victorian Studies essay‘We are conducting research in a living lab’What's it like to meet  the Oracle of Omaha?1.    Get to know your campus
2.    Get involved in the community
3.    Get ahead academically4.    Make connections
5.    Prep for Grad SchoolFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424