http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2016/07/07/5-reasons-to-attend-orientation-2016.html
While beginning your university career can be incredibly exciting, it can also feel a little overwhelming, given all there is to take in.That’s why every year Concordia holds a comprehensive program of orientation activities aimed at connecting incoming students to their new environment.From opportunities to get acquainted with your faculty and  future classmates, to sessions providing tips and strategies on how to achieve academic success, Orientation offers you a great way to start your educational journey on the right foot.It’s also a perfect chance to familiarize yourself with Concordia’s full range of student services.Here are 5 great reasons why you should attend Orientation 2016.Whether you’re looking for the perfect study spot, the shuttle bus stop, or the best eateries in town, student-led tours are the way to go.Each year mentors from Concordia’s Student Success Centre are on hand to show new students how to navigate the university’s two campuses, Loyola and the downtown Sir George Williams Campus. Beyond getting to know your way around Concordia’s physical space, New Student Tours are also a great opportunity to ask questions and get information on student life.Sign up for a tour now.Believe it or not, there’s more to university than just going to class.As a Concordian you’ll have plenty of opportunities to get involved in the student community. Learn about the university’s wide array of on-campus activities, student services and student associations at the Discover Concordia Information Fairs, which take place in the Alumni Auditorium (H-110), located on the first floor of the Henry F. Hall Building. At these faculty specific events, you’re bound to find something that speaks to your interests and caters to your needs. Here's the full schedule:Discover Concordia - Arts and Science
 Wednesday, August 31, from 12:30 to 5 p.m.Discover Concordia - John Molson School of Business
 Thursday, September 1, from 12:30 to 5 p.m.Discover Concordia - Engineering and Computer Science
 Friday, September 2, from 9:30 a.m. to 2 p.m.Discover Concordia - Fine Arts
 Friday, September 2, from 9:30 a.m. to 2 p.m.Moreover, Concordia makes it easy to get involved within the wider Montreal community through its LIVE Volunteer Resource Centre. Don’t miss your chance to meet up with a Volunteer Ambassador and find an experience that is right for you.Lecture notes, time management, required reading, course work, time crunch, midterms, finals — welcome to a whole new academic world, with its own vocabulary.Hit the ground running by attending Start Right, a two-day session designed to set you on the path to success. Get pro tips on everything from note taking to improving your memorization and academic writing.Start Right takes place between 9 a.m. and 3:30 p.m., on Monday, August 29, and Tuesday, August 30, in the Alumni Auditorium (H-110).Also, be sure to take advantage of My Action Plan (MAP) to Success, a personalized orientation program that focuses on your very own strengths and weaknesses in order to build individualized strategies designed to assure you get the most of your learning experience.Find out more about learning support at your Student Success Centre.Attending orientation is a great way to make initial connections with important people in your faculty, as well as with your fellow students.Once again, Discover Concordia offers new students a chance to network in a lax setting before the beginning of class, while also getting the lowdown on academic requirements, resources and student services available to them throughout their degree or certificate.Did I mention there will be food and prizes?Graduate School Base Camp is the perfect way to lay the foundation for a positive and productive graduate school experience. Over two days a myriad of workshops will be presented during which incoming grad students can learn fundamental skills, learn the ropes in terms of university rules, and be pointed to key resources.Graduate Student Orientation on September 1 is another great way to learn all about services to support your success and is open to all new graduate students (full-time, part-time or independent). Find out more about Concordia’s Student Success Centre. 
        Orientation 2016: everything you need to know
    
        5 great places to start your student job hunt at Concordia
    
        8 awesome Concordia student services
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia University5 reasons to attend Orientation 2016News
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsLatest storiesMost popularOPINION: Big Pharma’s troubles are good news for innovationConcordia receives funding for 5 Canada Research ChairsThe fight against fake newsConcordia receives $2 million to advance smart-grid technology‘Student success is more gratifying than any prize’13 essential tips for exam successTo nap or not to nap? Sleep tips for ConcordiansJason Camlot wins the Donald Gray Prize for best Victorian Studies essay‘We are conducting research in a living lab’What's it like to meet  the Oracle of Omaha?1.    Get to know your campus
2.    Get involved in the community
3.    Get ahead academically
4.    Make connections
5.    Prep for Grad SchoolFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424