http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2014/04/10/5-secrets-to-smart-eating.html
How important is it to eat well? In a word: fundamental. And as exam time approaches and the days shorten, a good diet becomes even more crucial to student life.The PERFORM Centre knows the value of eating well at any time of year. Healthier eating is not only about what you consume — who you consume it with is important, too. With their motto of “Better health through prevention” in mind, the PERFORM Centre promotes healthy living and disease prevention through social engagement and recreation.“Cooking and enjoying a meal together helps to practice skills in the kitchen and for participants to feel more confident and comfortable making healthy meals,” says Thea Demmers, dietitian at the PERFORM Centre. “Knowing more about how to look for simple, nutritious and sustainable ingredients is important.” Here are some top tips.
 Think soup isn’t a meal? Think again. With meat or an alternative thereof — or a combination of both — it can easily be. And while either option is good, the meat-free one, of course, can have a positive impact on the environment.
 High in fibre and iron, lentils are a complete protein when combined with grains. Many recipes such as red lentil curry take little time to prepare, and moving around the kitchen is a great physical and mental break from studying.
 Canned fish, ideally caught using sustainable practices, is a good source of long-chain omega-3 fatty acids, which benefit the brain.
 Read the label of every food item you purchase. Foods that are low in fat (less than three grams per portion) and sodium (less than 140 milligrams per portion) are the ones to look for at the supermarket.
 Find out the recommended amounts of protein, starch and vegetables so that your meals are healthy and balanced. Finding the correct portion sizes is easy.
For more tips, check out “How to eat healthy in 2016” or check out the wealth of resources and information carefully considered and compiled by the professional healthcare providers at Concordia's Health Services.  
        13 essential tips for exam success
    
        To nap or not to nap? Sleep tips for Concordians
    
        79 superb study spots at Concordia
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia University5 secrets to smart eating at exam timeNews
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topics5 easy ways to eat smart
  Find an expert1. Eat soup2. Learn the value of lentils3. Don’t forget about fish4. Pay attention to labels5. Know your needsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424