http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2016/05/17/a-concordian-abroad-eurovision-denmark-meagan-boisse.html
As a Canadian I felt slightly bemused when my European classmates started harping on about the Eurovision finale this past week. I hardly knew anything about the pan-European song competition, and mention of it elicited only a vague sense of familiarity — “It’s something like American Idol, right?”Boy, was I in for a surprise. Turns out Eurovision is a huge deal across the pond — and in Australia as well, for some unknown reason (they even compete). The finale pulls in hundreds of millions of viewers every year and is one of the longest running television shows ever, with a history that stretches back 60 years. Who knew?Naturally then, no European exchange could be complete without joining in on some Eurovision mayhem.I ended up watching the finale along with a slew of my classmates and about 100 other eager spectators at a “Eurovision party” in Aarhus’ Studenterhus, which projected the show on a big screen.The energy in the space was kinetic — shouts came up from the crowd whenever a new country took the stage. It was fun to be able to identify where segments of the audience were from — there was no missing the Lithuanians, who cheered loudly and waved flags as their compatriot performed.The show itself contained plenty of theatrics: from weird illuminated costumes, to funky choreography, to awkward seductive winking at the camera (looking at you, Holland). “Weird Al” Yankovic even represented Poland — not really, but the resemblance was striking!The competition is scored through a combination of points given out by judges representing each EU country (and Australia, of course) and votes from the public. There was tension in the air up until the very last moment, when the public vote was revealed.  In the end, after accumulating a ton of votes, Ukrainian Jamala's politically charged song “1944” stood out amidst some fluffier numbers, unexpectedly usurping Australia and Russia (much to the chagrin of many a Russian) to take the win. Cue audience gasps.If you’re wondering, Germany finished dead last for the second year in a row. I was quite aware of this fact not only because I was watching the show, but also because my German classmate Niels, who was sitting right next to me, went on a diatribe afterwards about how his country should stop funding this “dumb” competition and use its money more effectively.Fun fact: Celine Dion somehow represented Switzerland in 1988 and won, launching her international career!If you’re still not sure what Eurovision is all about, perhaps this video will help. 
Start your application for exchange today! 
        Your passport to global learning
    
        A Concordian abroad: ‘What's the cure for homesickness?'
    
        A Concordian abroad: 'Give yourself time to explore and have fun'
    
        A Concordian abroad: cracking the 'Danish coconut'
    
        A Concordian abroad: ‘Don't head up sick creek without a paddle'
    
        A Concordian abroad: ‘Here’s to pottery, printing and possibilities!’
    
        A Concordian abroad: 'Who doesn’t love a savoury social adhesive?'
    
        A Concordian abroad: speedy cyclists, repurposed churches and a hippie haven
    
        A Concordian abroad: flødeboller, flæskesteg … a feast!
    
        A Concordian abroad: you can still watch local playoff hockey ... in Denmark
    
        A Concordian abroad: 'Who doesn’t love a little Eurovision mayhem?'
    
        A Concordian abroad: 'It was hard to believe I was in the same wet, stormy Denmark'
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityA Concordian abroad: 'Who doesn’t love a little Eurovision mayhem?'Department of Journalism
            
                Department of Journalism
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsLatest storiesMost popularOPINION: Big Pharma’s troubles are good news for innovationConcordia receives funding for 5 Canada Research ChairsThe fight against fake newsConcordia receives $2 million to advance smart-grid technology‘Student success is more gratifying than any prize’13 essential tips for exam successTo nap or not to nap? Sleep tips for ConcordiansJason Camlot wins the Donald Gray Prize for best Victorian Studies essay‘We are conducting research in a living lab’What's it like to meet  the Oracle of Omaha?Find an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424