http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2016/04/21/a-concordian-abroad-denmark-hockey-meagan-boisse.html
 Meagan Boisse is an undergraduate student in the Department of Journalism, and a member of the Institute for Co-operative Education. For her last work term, she was employed as a roving reporter at Concordia.ca.Now, through Concordia International, Boisse is spending the winter 2016 term studying at the Danish School of Media and Journalism in Aarhus, Denmark.
Hockey is an integral component of the Canadian identity, but I had never actually attended a professional game until this week — in Denmark of all places.My roommate Casey and I — along with Patrick, the goalie from her hockey team here in Aarhus — headed out to the middle of Jutland yesterday, to watch the sixth game of the championship series between Herning Blue Fox and Esbjerg Energy in Metal Ligean, Denmark's premier league.  While it seems a little counterintuitive to experience what is essentially a Canuck rite of passage while abroad, it was cool to watch a familiar scene unfold in such an unfamiliar place. The small stadium was packed with nearly 4,000 fans. The vast majority of the crowd was wearing blue for Herning, the home team, but there was one pocket of yellow in the corner of the rink, reserved for away-team fans — a rowdy bunch that jumped and cheered in perfect unison for all three periods. With my beloved Habs out of the NHL playoffs this year, along with every other Canadian team, what better time to throw my support behind a Danish team? Go, Herning!The atmosphere inside the rink was electric, as the constant hammering of what sounded like a war drum mixed with howls and Danish hockey chants. Casey noted that whenever Blue Fox missed an opportunity, instead of hearing the typical North American “Oohhh!” Danish fans instead shouted “Ayyeee!”The game was close, Energy scored the first goal, then Blue Fox responded, and by the end of the third period they were tied 2-2.Cue overtime! We nervously gripped our Carlsbergs as the players moved up and down the ice. Finally, Energy scored, ending the game and winning the Danish Championship. Fun fact, the game-winning goal was scored by Canadian player Aaron Lee.
 
Afterward nearly everyone piled out of the arena, except for the overjoyed Energy fans, who belted out song after song as medals were awarded and the winning players were crowned with golden helmets.It was an awesome time despite not knowing the teams. Is there any better way to embrace one’s Canadian heritage while abroad than by attending a good ol’ hockey game? I think not!
Start your application for exchange today! 
        Your passport to global learning
    
        A Concordian abroad: ‘What's the cure for homesickness?'
    
        A Concordian abroad: 'Give yourself time to explore and have fun'
    
        A Concordian abroad: cracking the 'Danish coconut'
    
        A Concordian abroad: ‘Don't head up sick creek without a paddle'
    
        A Concordian abroad: ‘Here’s to pottery, printing and possibilities!’
    
        A Concordian abroad: 'Who doesn’t love a savoury social adhesive?'
    
        A Concordian abroad: speedy cyclists, repurposed churches and a hippie haven
    
        A Concordian abroad: flødeboller, flæskesteg … a feast!
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityA Concordian abroad: you can still watch local playoff hockey ... in DenmarkDepartment of Journalism
            
                Department of Journalism
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsLatest storiesMost popularOPINION: Big Pharma’s troubles are good news for innovationConcordia receives funding for 5 Canada Research ChairsThe fight against fake newsConcordia receives $2 million to advance smart-grid technology‘Student success is more gratifying than any prize’13 essential tips for exam successTo nap or not to nap? Sleep tips for ConcordiansJason Camlot wins the Donald Gray Prize for best Victorian Studies essay‘We are conducting research in a living lab’What's it like to meet  the Oracle of Omaha?Find an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424