http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/undergraduate/bachelor/students/advising-policies/academic-performance.htmlThe student's academic performance is determined once a year in May following the end of the Winter term provided that he or she attempted a minimum of 12 credits during the academic year which includes the Summer, Fall and Winter terms. The following example illustrates the calculation of the GPA for Sam Wu (a hypothetical student) who completed 24 credits during the Fall 2003 and Winter 2004 terms.Sam's GPA is calculated by multiplying the grade point for each course by its credit value to get a weighted grade point. The sum of the weighted grade points for all courses is then divided by the number of credits attempted.Weighted GPA = 56.7 / 24 = 2.36Note that the 3 credits for MATH 209 are included in the GPA calculation, even though Sam failed the course. He attempted to pass the course but failed. Since MATH 209 is a required course for the program, Sam must repeat it and pass it in a future term.

The GPA is calculated automatically every May for all students based on a specialized software program and printed on the student's transcript. Students can also calculate their GPA manually as shown above or use the GPA calculator available in the portal system.

If Sam registered in the program on a part-time basis and did not attempt a minimum of 12 credits during the 2003-2004 academic year, then the grades he achieves in those courses will be included in the calculation of his GPA in May of the following year.
Let us assume that Sam attempts 30 additional credits during the academic year 2004-2005. If he accumulates a total of 82.8 weighted grade points, then his annual GPA for that year is 2.76 (= 82.8 / 30 credits). Given that Sam has taken courses over two academic years, a cumulative GPA can be calculated based on all the courses he attempted up to that date. The CGPA is calculated by adding the weighted grade points achieved in all the courses he attempted and dividing the total by the number of credits.Cumulative GPA = (56.7 + 82.8) / (24 + 30) = 2.58Please note that the CGPA includes the same courses that are included in the calculation of the Annual Weighted Grade Point Average, but it does not include the grades of courses which were completed in an earlier program, for which "transfer credit" has been awarded in the business program.
The graduation GPA is a cumulative GPA that is calculated when a student completes all the program's requirements and applies for graduation.

Please note that when a student repeats a course only the grade corresponding to the final attempt of a course is used in the calculation of the Annual, Cumulative and Graduation GPAs.
The GPA ranges from 0 to 4.3. This range is split into three segments for performance assessment purposes as shown below.

GPA = 0
A student who achieves an annual GPA that is lower than 1.50 is placed in failed standing and dismissed from the program for a minimum period of one year. Failed students may apply for readmission to the program in subsequent years.
A student who achieves an annual GPA that is between 1.50 and 1.99 is placed on conditional standing and required to achieve a minimum annual GPA of 2.0 at the time of the next GPA calculation. Failure to achieve the minimum GPA required will result in failed standing in the program.
A student who achieves a minimum annual GPA of 2.0 is in acceptable standing and is permitted to continue his or her program of study without restrictions.
Students who achieve high levels of academic performance are rewarded in the following manners:Concordia’s Counselling & Development Department can help you succeed!The Counselling and Development (C&D) department at Concordia University provides a variety of services that are intended to help students maximize their personal, academic, and career potential. The C&D website is full of useful material that address a variety of issues including reading, writing, note-taking, problem solving, oral presentations, exam anxiety, math anxiety, time management, and difficulties with learning new languages. In particular, we recommend that you visit the following pages within the C&D section for more information:© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityAcademic performanceJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessB. Cumulative GPAC. Graduation GPAD. Academic Performance Regulations
Failed StandingConditional StandingAcceptable StandingE. Recognition of High AchievementF. Tips for SuccessConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424