http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/math-stats/programs/undergraduate/actuarial-mathematics-finance-ba-bsc.htmlModel the future, solve problems involving risk, and make financial decisions that will affect the futures of corporations, communities and investors. This combined program offers you a direct path to an actuarial career with a financial sector specialization. In the program, you do all the Actuarial Mathematics coursework: studying statistics, probability, and learning mathematical models to solve problems involving uncertainty. Then, you combine accounting, economics and finance courses at the John Molson School of Business, learning to analyze the effects of time, money and risk on building wealth.Plus, you can complete the Co-op program, working with actuaries who oversee the design, financing, and operation of insurance, pension and other benefit plans. At the end of your degree, you will enter a career field that has a great demand for specialists in actuarial finance. Our programs are provisionally accredited by the Canadian Institute of Actuaries (CIA). Grads gain exemptions to four of the preliminary professional exams of the Society of Actuaries and the Casualty Actuarial Society. Concordia University is designated as a Centre of Actuarial Excellence by the Society of Actuaries.A Bachelor of Arts or Science degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background.Concentration:See full degree requirements in the Undergraduate CalendarLetter of intent outlining the purpose and reason for selecting this program/discipline.
The Department of Mathematics and Statistics accepts a limited number of top-ranked students into the Specialization in Actuarial Mathematics/Finance program. Applicants are required to submit a letter of intent, either uploaded with the online application or mailed to the Admissions Application Centre. The letter of intent should be approximately 200 words long; it should outline your background and goals, and explain why this program will help meet those goals.Minimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.Letter of intent outlining the purpose and reason for selecting this program/discipline.
The Department of Mathematics and Statistics accepts a limited number of top-ranked students into the Specialization in Actuarial Mathematics/Finance program. Applicants are required to submit a letter of intent, either uploaded with the online application or mailed to the Admissions Application Centre. The letter of intent should be approximately 200 words long; it should outline your background and goals, and explain why this program will help meet those goals.Minimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
 Consult the undergraduate calendar for a complete list of current courses.The Actuarial Mathematics Co-op program gives you the chance to do paid work terms for insurance companies or consulting firms as actuarial assistants or actuarial analysts. Co-op program students:Learn more about our Co-op programsActuarial Mathematics alumni work in many fields requiring mathematics expertise, including:Patrice Gaillardetz© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityActuarial Mathematics/Finance (BA/BSc)Department of Mathematics & Statistics
            
                Department of Mathematics & Statistics
            Department ContactKey resourcesDegree options
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements — BSc
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements — BA
                
            
                
					
                    Applications deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Sample classes
                
            
                
					
                    Co-op program
                
            
                
					
                    After your degreeWhy study Actuarial Mathematics and Finance?Program DetailsBachelor of Arts (BA) / Bachelor of Science (BSc)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Cegep StudentsAdditonal requirements: Letter of intentMinimum Cut-off AveragesCegep StudentsAdditonal requirements: Letter of intentMinimum Cut-off Averages