http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/undergraduate/bachelor/admissions.htmlIn general, to be considered for admission you must have achieved the level of secondary education required to apply for university studies in your home province, state or country. John Molson School of Business undergraduate programs have additional admissions requirements beyond the minimum criteria required for admission to general university studies. Please see below for these requirements.The standard advice for all applicants, regardless of their situation, is to make use of all three program choices found in the online admissions application.Please indicate your preferred JMSB program as your first choice (BComm, BAdmin, etc.), and then indicate a second and third backup program offered by another faculty at the university. The recommended backup program to JMSB is the Certificate in Arts & Science; however, no one program is more advantageous than any other when transferring internally to JMSB from other Concordia university programs.Cegep applicants completing a two-year pre-university Diplôme d’études collégiales (DEC) must achieve a minimum overall CRC of 26.00 and an average CRC of 25.50 in mathematics. The mathematics courses considered for admission are Calculus 1 and Linear Algebra only.  Applicants are eligible for admission to JMSB once they have completed at least one of these two mathematics courses, provided the other course is completed at JMSB during the first year. However, it is recommended that applicants complete as many of the JMSB prerequisite courses as possible within their Cegep program (see Potential Course Exemptions).Cegep applicants completing a three-year technical DEC in a business-related field may also be eligible for admission without the mathematics profile specified above, provided they achieve a minimum overall CRC of 26.00 and achieve a minimum of 75% in the quantitative business course(s) required for their Cegep program. It is also recommended that these applicants submit their high school transcripts with their application. If admitted, applicants will be required to complete all missing prerequisite courses as elective credits at JMSB (see Potential Course Exemptions).Once applicants are admitted based on their overall CRC score and average CRC in mathematics, admitted students may be awarded course exemptions in the following Cegep courses:Admitted students who do not receive exemptions for these courses in their letter of acceptance will be required to complete them as elective credits at JMSB during their first year in the program. These prerequisite courses will count for credit and will not normally prolong a JMSB degree in any way.* Beginning in Fall 2016, MATH 208 and 209 exemptions are granted based on a minimum percentage grade in equivalent Cegep course; the CRC grade for these courses no longer influences exemption decisions.Applicants must be completing grade 12 in Canada with a minimum overall average of 80% and an average of 80% in mathematics in the required number of senior-level grade 12 courses. All applicants must have completed the required mathematics and English courses (or French if they attended a French-language school) and must meet the requirements to graduate in their home province or territory:
Applicants must be completing grade 12 with a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0 (on a 4.30 scale) and an average GPA of 3.0 in mathematics courses. Final grade 11 and mid-term grade 12 results are used to calculate admissions averages. Advanced Placement (AP) courses will only be assessed once the applicant’s file is complete. SAT or ACT scores are not required for admission; admissions is based solely on high school grades. A GED is not accepted in lieu of a high school diploma.Applicants must have completed at least three O levels with an overall average of B, including a B in mathematics, as well as at least two A levels with an overall average of C, including a C in mathematics. Two AS levels may be considered equivalent to one A level, unless otherwise stated.Applicants from the International Baccalaureate (IB) diploma program must achieve an overall predicted score of 28 points as well as a predicted grade of 5/7 in standard level (SL) mathematics

A test of English proficiency may also be required.

* Applicants who have completed higher level (HL) mathematics may be eligible for course exemptions upon admission, though not advanced credit.Applicants must have completed the Baccalauréat with an overall score of 13/20 and an average score of 13/20 in mathematics courses, on their first attempt. Applicants are assessed on their academic performance in the three trimesters of Première and first trimester of Terminale.

A test of English proficiency may also be required.

* Applicants who have completed série économique et sociale (ES) option mathematiques or série scientifique (S) mathematics may be eligible for course exemptions upon admission, though not advanced credit.Applicants from countries and education systems not specified above are generally admissible if they meet the academic and English-language proficiency requirements for admission to Concordia University, provided they achieve above-average grades overall and in pre-university mathematics courses in their home country. This would translate roughly to a 3.00 CGPA (on a 4.30 scale) or the equivalent of a "B" grade at Concordia University.In most cases, final grade 11 and mid-term grade 12 results are used to calculate admissions averages. A test of English proficiency may also be required.Admission as a mature student may be granted to Canadian Citizens or Permanent Residents, subject to the following conditions:

A test of English proficiency may also be required.Applicants from other universities who wish to transfer an unfinished degree or complete a second degree at the John Molson School of Business must have achieved a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0 (on a 4.30 scale) with an average GPA of 3.0 (B equivalent) in mathematics courses. Ideally, applicants should have completed all prerequisite courses (Calculus I, Linear Algebra, Microeconomics, Macroeconomics and Computer Literacy).

Applicants who meet the minimum entry requirements but lack some or all of the prerequisite courses are encouraged to apply and may still be considered for admission, providing they have completed business or business-related courses.

A test of English proficiency may also be required.

Newly admitted applicants will likely receive credit for university-level courses completed at a recognized institution, subject to Concordia University policy (see 16.1.3). Transfer credits will only be assessed once the applicant’s file is complete and an admissions decision has been made. Details and an explanation of all transfer credits will be included in JMSB acceptance letters.Note: per university policy, completed university courses must have an equivalent grade of "C-" or higher to be transfered for credit to a JMSB program.

*Additional conditions may apply for university transfers. Applicants in Failed Standing are subject to additional requirements.Concordia students in non-JMSB degree programs (e.g., B.A. students) may apply to transfer to a JMSB degree program for the Fall term only - the deadline is March 1. Apply online by logging into the Application for Admission section of the MyConcordia Portal.Independent Students and Certificate program students are not eligible for degree transfers and must submit a new application to the university for either the Fall or Winter terms.The following admissions information is valid for all Concordia degree transfers, certificate and independent studentsApplicants for transfer to either the BComm or BAdmin program must meet the following requirements*Applicants in Failed Standing are subject to additional requirements and cannot be accepted as transfer students until the conditions of their readmission are satisfied.Courses available to non-JMSB students in preparation for internal degree transferStudents who are currently registered in a non-business degree program may wish to complete the following courses for which they may obtain an exemption from or transfer credits for specific COMM courses:* These courses are difficult and should only be attempted by students with good academic standing.The following courses will not result in transfer credits or exemptions toward a JMSB degree*Completed university courses will have the credits transferred to a new program provided a grade of C‑ or better has been achieved.For an overview of how to apply, view Concordia's Undergraduate admission steps.Ready to start your application? Apply now online.Information valid as at November 2016 – Subject to change without noticeAttend an eventContact usDownload undergraduate brochurePlease choose the correct appointment type for your situationJMSB Degree Transfer Information Sessions
 For current Concordia students completing internal transfers to JMSBAdvising for Independent Students
 For current or future Independent Students planning to apply to JMSBGeneral admissions appointments
 For all applicant situations not covered above (non-Independent Students)© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityAdmissionsJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            Get startedApplicants from Quebec Cegeps
                
            
                
					
                    Applicants from Canadian high schools
                
            
                
					
                    Applicants from United States high schools
                
            
                
					
                    Applicants with United Kingdom A Levels
                
            
                
					
                    Applicants from the International Baccalaureate Program
                
            
                
					
                    Applicants from the Baccalauréat Français program
                
            
                
					
                    Applicants from other international high schools
                
            
                
					
                    Applicants to the Mature-entry option
                
            
                
					
                    Transfer applicants from other universities
                
            
                
					
                    Internal transfers from other Concordia programsAdmission requirements
How to applySchedule an admissions appointmentConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Pre-university (Two-year)Professional/technical (Three-year)Potential Course Exemptionshttp://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/science-college/program/admissions.htmlIn order to be considered for membership in the Science College, a student must be enrolled in one of Concordia's science programs, show an interest in science and be highly motivated to attain excellence. Admission to the College is by personal interview only. In addition to their Major, members of the Science College are enrolled in a Minor in Multidisciplinary Studies in Science. Our enrolment has increased from 12 students in 1979 to the current number of 70 students. The College accepts 20 to 30 students every year.The criteria for eligibility necessitates that the applicant to apply to the Science College, must be enrolled in one of the Natural science programmes, namely: Biology, Chemistry & Biochemistry, Computer Science, Exercise Science, Geography, Journalism, Physics, Psychology (B.Sc. or B.A. in Cognitive Science), and Mathematics but Actuarial Mathematics is excluded.Students are granted an interview if the student is accepted at Concordia University. The personal interview is the key determinant for acceptance to the college. To be accepted students must possess a good academic background in natural sciences and excellent grades and complementary involvement outside the academic field.
When an individual applies to the college, first the grades are evaluated and a decision is made whether to grant that individual an interview. The personal interview dictates one’s acceptance to the college. Consequently, student’s exhibits exceptional motivation and aptitude but those whose performance at the interview supersede their ability to obtain excellent grades are accepted to the college. Many of these students evolve as amongst the college’s best achievers.When one applies to the Science College, one's grades are looked at and taken into account, however, large emphasis is placed on the personal interview. Hence, students who show exceptional motivation and capacity, but for some reason were not successful in obtaining the best grades can be accepted. Many of these students turn out to be among the College's high achievers.Each student is sent a letter after the interview and, if accepted, confirmation must be sent to the College.Contact us to arrange an interview or visit Science College. Science College:
514-848-2424 ext. 2595Lillian Jackson - Recipient of the Award for Exceptional Service to the Faculty of Arts and Sciencelillian.jackson@concordia.caScience College
 Richard J. Renaud Science Complex (SP)
Room SP 363.1
7141 Sherbrooke Street WestScience College
 Concordia University
1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8With Ian Ferrier
 Learn more© Concordia UniversityLoyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
See Loyola Campus mapConcordia UniversityAdmissions requirementsScience College
            
                Science College
            Contact usLocationMailing addressStudent writing supportConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Criteria of eligibilityThe interviewOther considerationsContacts