http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/mba/alumni/adriana-molluso.htmlAdriana Molluso was named president of JMSB Alumni Chapter in April 2010. Adriana completed her MBA in 2009. She also holds a Bachelor in Civil Law (LLB) from the University of Sherbrooke.Adriana currently works as a lawyer for Blake, Cassels & Graydon. She is a member of the Québec Bar Association, Quebec Young Bar Association and CREW (Commercial Real Estate Women).What was your background before starting your MBA?I was and still am a lawyer. I had worked as a criminal litigator for a few years right out of law school and after about three years, I realized that I wanted to switch into corporate law. Starting the MBA was my first step towards my career transition.Why did you decide to do an MBA?I could have also done an advanced degree in law in order to transition into corporate, however in law school you really only learn about law. At the time (I am not sure if it has since changed), we did not have any elective courses in other disciplines or any opportunities to learn about different subject matters. There seemed to be so much that I didn’t know and that I wanted to learn. The MBA not only broadened my general knowledge base, it also allowed me to “speak” the same business language as my clients who are often CFOs or other C level executives. My MBA really allows me to serve my clients better.Why did you choose the John Molson School of Business?I did not even apply to other business schools. I had done my first degree in French, so I really wanted to do my masters in English part-time after work. Plus, my sister and brother-in-law both did their MBA at Concordia… So word of mouth really led me straight to JMSB. I was told, and my experience confirmed, that JMSB had a practical approach towards teaching and that was exactly what I was looking for. I did not want to sit and listen to a lecturer in an auditorium. I wanted to be engaged, participate, interact and work on real business case studies.How did you enjoy your time in the Program?Amazing. Definitely one of the better decisions I have made. I made a point of getting involved in the program and in the activities. Although I was working full-time, I wanted to make the most out of my experience. I was part of the MBA committee for one year and I participated in the John Molson MBA International Case Competition (our team won third place). The courses are only part of the program. In order to get the full experience of the MBA, you have to interact with your class mates and dive into everything the school has to offer. The network of people you meet should stay with you forever.Where are you working now?I am an associate at Blake, Cassels & Graydon, which is one of the biggest law firms in Canada.  I am a member of the Financial Services team, specializing in real estate, financing, lending and securities law. How did your MBA affect your career?During my MBA and until about two years after I graduated, I worked at Standard Life in their in-house legal department. I had an amazing experience at Standard Life and moved up quickly, much of which I attribute to my MBA. I must be quick to add that it is not the designation itself that entitles you to career advancement, but it is really the knowledge you acquire during and after your studies, as well as the approach you take when facing day-to-day challenges. The MBA helps you see the big picture, but also helps you to understand the details. © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityAdriana Molluso, MBA ‘09John Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424The program can facilitate career changes within the same field.