http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/english/student-life/awards.htmlThe Department of English has several prizes, awards and scholarships to compete for. Our students also regularly win university-wide scholarships.
 Award of $300 for the best essay submitted by a currrently-registered undergraduate student on a topic in literature written in English before 1700.  For submission of the essay, see NOTE below.  see NOTE below.Award of $300 for the best essay submitted by a currrently-registered undergraduate student on a topic in literature written in English from the 18th century to the present.    For submission of the essay, see NOTE below.This scholarship (value of $500) is designated for a currrently-registered and full-time undergraduate student who will be entering the final 24 to 30 credits in either Honours English Literature or Honours English and Creative Writing programs in the 2016-17 academic year.  Students graduating in June or November of 2016 are ineligible.  The scholarship is awarded on the basis of academic excellence and an essay submitted on any aspect of English literary studies.  Submissions must also include an updated student record.  For submission of the essay, see NOTE below.Currently-registered undergraduate students may enter any or all of the above competitions, but a separate application must be made for each.  You may enter an essay written for a course or one written specifically for these competitions.  

Each application must: 

1)   indicate the award for which the application is intended; 
2)   contain three copies of the essay, collated and stapled; 
3)   include a cover page with your name, student I.D., telephone number and email address.  Incomplete, late, or electronic submissions will NOT be accepted.For additional information contact:  Professor John Miller 514-848-2424, ext. 2333Two awards in the amount of $500 each, available to undergraduate students for excellence in the writing of poetry and fiction.  Any student currently registered in an undergraduate degree program at Concordia may compete.  Entries must be original and unpublished.  The poetry prize is awarded to the best single poem chosen from the overall submissions, the fiction prize to the best single story.  The poetry portfolio may consist of one poem or several, but may not be longer than 5 pages.  The fiction portfolio must consist of a single story of no more than 5,000 words.

Students may enter both the poetry and fiction categories but with only one submission in each category.  Entries must be typewritten and clearly indicate on the front page the category (poetry or fiction) in which they are submitted for competition.  All entries must be submitted in triplicate, collated and stapled.  Include a cover page with your name, student I.D., telephone number and e-mail address with each copy of your submission.  Incomplete, late or electronic submissions will not be accepted.  Submissions may be from poems or stories written for courses or they may be written specifically for the competition.

We regret that, due to the number of submissions, the judges are unable to provide comments.For additional information contact:       Ms. Angela Alleyne    514-848-2424, ext. 2343  
THE IRVING LAYTON AWARDS FOR CREATIVE WRITING 2016EligibilitySubmission Requirements for Fiction and PoetryJudging, Finalists, and Award CeremoniesNOTE:  We regret that, due to the number of submissions, the judges are unable to provide comments.Compton-Lamb Memorial Scholarship
2014 - Rudrapriya Rathore     
2013  -  Stephen Kernaghan2012  -  Robin GrahamA.G. Hooper Prize2014 - Emily Gaudet2013  -  Fanny Dvorkin2012  -  Dylan SargentIrving Layton Award  -  Fiction2014 - Rudrapriya Rathore     2013  -  Gleb Wilson2012  -  Alex ManleyIrving Layton Award  -  Poetry2014 - Jacqueline Hanna2013  -  Emma Healey2012  -  Stefano FaustiniMacGuigan Prize2014 - Soili Smith2013  -  Stephen Kernaghan2012  -  Kevin Yildirim  Through the Student hub, you can search for bursaries, awards and scholarships available to all students at Concordia. The university offers a number of scholarships and grants for which every applicant is considered when completing the application for admission. For them, check the Funding section on the School of Graduate Studies website.  Please consult this database regularly. For each award you are provided with the eligibility information, application procedures, deadlines and so on. While the graduate program director, in coordination with the Graduate Awards Office, will do his or her best to provide students with information about funding opportunities, it is ultimately the student’s responsibility to seek out information about fellowships and awards.In recent years, however, the department has been able to offer one or two more sizeable financial packages per year for outstanding students applying to enter the MA in English full-time in the Fall. Each package consisted of one Faculty of Arts and Science Graduate Fellowship (valued at $7,000) To be considered automatically for such a package, a prospective outstanding applicant should have his/her complete application into the system by January 15 of each year.University policies on graduate funding evolve each year, but in general students who bring external funding (usually from SSHRC or FQRSC) to the program, qualify automatically for a top-up of their grant (in 2012-13, that amount was set at $6,000). The applicant who receives external funding should promptly inform the Graduate Program Director about that achievement. We strongly encourage prospective applicants to our MA program to apply for external funding (SSHRC or FQRSC) in the Fall prior to considering admission to Concordia.A limited number of departmental teaching assistantships are available to qualified applicants undertaking fulltime graduate studies. These are awarded by the Graduate Committee on the basis of the applicant’s academic/creative record, letters of recommendation and experience, including publications and artistic or scholarly awards. The greatest weight is given to the academic or creative record.The English Department is endowed with the following prizes which are awarded to exceptional graduate students on an annual basis:Deadline:   tba 

To honour the late Professor Wynne Francis and her significant role in the pioneering of Canadian literary studies, the Department of English established an annual award in her name. The award is granted annually to a graduate student for the best essay on Canadian poetry. The objective of the award is to stimulate interest in the area of studies to which Wynne Francis devoted her teaching and research at Sir George Williams and Concordia Universities. The Rules: A financial award will be granted annually for the outstanding essay on Canadian poetry by a graduate student. To be eligible, the student must be registered in the English Graduate Program at Concordia University. Three copies of the must be submitted to the Graduate Assistant by the deadline. The jury will consist of members of the English Department.Deadline: tbaCreated in 2008 in loving memory of Amy Menon Marleau.  Open to all full-time graduate students in the Department of English. The scholarship is to be granted through competition on the basis of academic excellence, c.v., statement of purpose, and a letter of reference from a supervisor or faculty member who has taught you. If the award committee finds that there are two or more applicants of equal merit, preference will be given to students nterested in transnational literature or in questions of cultural encounter and exchange.Deadline:   tbaThis award is granted through competition on the basis of academic excellence, and financial need as expressed in the student’s statement describing his/her financial situation and explaining how the scholarship will assist him/her. The scholarship is to be awarded to a full-time student registered in the M.A. English Creative Writing program. The value of the award is dependent on the market value of the endowment. A copy of the application must be submitted to the Graduate Assistant by the deadline. © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityAwards, prizes, and activitiesDepartment of English
            
                Department of English
            Undergraduate awards and prizesIriving Layton Award Submission Requirements for Fiction and Poetry
                
            
                
					
                    Previous award winnersFinancial aid and awards
Teaching AssistantshipsDepartmental PrizesDeadline for all submissions:         Thursday, February 4, 2016, 4:00 p.m. --  English Department, LB-641A.G. Hooper PrizeMacGuigan PrizeCompton-Lamb Memorial ScholarshipNote: Submission requirements
Irving Layton Awards for Creative WritingConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424The Wynne Francis Award for Graduate Study in Canadian Poetry:The Amy Menon Graduate ScholarshipFeige and Sydney Gasco Graduate Scholarship in English (Creative Writing):