http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/mba/beyond-the-classroom.htmlYou will have the opportunity to learn outside the classroom while gaining credits toward your degree. The hands-on experience, practical knowledge and network developed through these options add tremendous value to your degree. Students are encouraged to tailor their program to suit their interests and career goals, making the John Molson MBA unique to each student.
Some of the opportunities listed here are also part of the MBA non-core options (electives), worth 3 or 6 credits each.The John Molson MBA International Case Competition is the oldest, largest and most highly-respected international case competition in the world. Each year, top MBA students from 36 universities around the globe participate in this six-day event. Competitors apply the concepts and theories they have learned in class to a fast-paced problem-solving exercise. Their presentations are then judged by over 200 business executives who evaluate the creativity, insight and real-world applicability of their proposals.The MBA Community Service Initiative (MBA CSI) encourages and promotes community service and links the resources of the JMSB at Concordia University with the needs of communities, organizations, small businesses, institutions and industries.Learn more about MBA CSI.The Consulting Bureau provides second-year MBA students with hands-on management consulting experience. An initiative of the Dobson Foundation’s Centre for Small Business and Entrepreneurial Studies, the Bureau provides Montreal area entrepreneurs and small businesses with a complete range of consulting services. Learn more about the CSBCB.This event, a premier case competition focused on small cap investment, will provide graduate-level business students with an opportunity to showcase their ability to analyze financial business cases, develop strategic recommendations and apply the academic skills they have gained in the classroom. Learn more about the Van Berkom Case Competition.The MBA Society enhances the MBA experience by providing opportunities for professional growth outside of our classrooms. Through a variety of services and activities, including the Women in Business Club, the Consulting Club, the International Business Club, the Society encourages interaction between students, alumni, recruiters, guest speakers and the business community at large. The Concordia International Community Outreach Program (iCOP) provides John Molson School of Business students like you with the opportunity to apply and transfer knowledge within the developing world. Work in microfinance, help with market analysis, and provide mentoring or consulting services to local entrepreneurs through iCOP's volunteer work placements.
 2016 ICOP Team:
President - Oulimathe Paraiso
VP Finance - Ashish Singh Ra
VP Marketing - Aleksey Cameron
VP Events - Sharath Savanth
Alumni Advisor - Sagar ArgawalLearn more:
 icopconcordia.com
facebook.com/icopconcordiaThe inescapable truth is that finance and investing are an intrinsic part of every person's life. Whenever a person parts with their money it’s either an expense or an investment; there is no third option. Hence, it is the goal of JMGIC is to help graduate students learn more about these fields.The 3 E’s of the JMGIC:
Education: learn the technicalities of the investment world
Entertainment: impart this education and learning through a fun environment
Expression: apply your concepts and knowledge through our eventsLearn more:
facebook.com/johmmolsonGICThe John Molson Graduate Student Association (JMGSA) Speaker Series is a student-run initiative that organizes speaker events for graduate students at Concordia University's John Molson School of Business. Learn more about the JMGSA Speaker Series.The John Molson MBA Entrepreneurship Club's mission is to provide JMSB MBA students with opportunity for:
- Networking
- Exchanging ideas
- Mentoring and support for entrepreneurial minded studentsLearn more:
 jmec.ca
facebook.com/JMECMBA2016-2017 JMEC Executive Team:
Josie YS - President
Sara Lechheb - VP Marketing & Communications
Jessica Minhas - VP Events
Jean-François Morin - VP Operations
Raouf George - VP Finance
Sachin War - VP Technology
Azam Khan - VP Industry Liaison
Shubhashish Mehra - Events Manager
Rajan Bansal - Operations Manager
Rahul Singhal - Assistant Vice President Marketing
Abhinav Chander - Assistant Vice President EventsThe John Molson Women in Business Club (JMWIBC) is an association open to all women - currently or previously enrolled in a graduate program at the John Molson School of Business (JMSB) - who are looking to advance their skills and career through our network of fellow students, alumna and business professionals.Learn more about JMWIBC.The dedicated Graduate Career Advisor at Career Management Services meets MBA students on an individual basis to discuss career issues and to personally get to know the candidates. Your key to success in career management is clearly to know yourself and then evaluate your value to the marketplace. CareerLeader Self-Assessment Program is available as a tool to assist you. Career Management Services will help you create a winning résumé and cover letter - your primary personal marketing tools. Students will meet their advisor to review and develop an MBA-specific style. Learn more about CMSAttend an info session/eventConnect with a recruiterDownload program brochureContact us© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityBeyond the classroomJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            Get startedEventsJoin the conversationExperiential learning: putting theory into practiceJohn Molson MBA International Case CompetitionMBA Community Service Initiative (MBA CSI)Concordia Small Business Consulting BureauVan Berkom Case CompetitionMBA SocietyConcordia International Community Outreach Program (iCOP)John Molson Graduates Investment Club (JMGIC)John Molson Graduate Student Association Speaker SeriesJohn Molson MBA Entrepreneurship Club (JMEC)John Molson Women in Business ClubCareer Management ServicesSee alsoConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424