http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/mba/beyond-the-classroom/case-competitions.htmlThe longest-running and most prestigious international MBA case competition in the world.Every year, the John Molson School of Business welcomes 36 teams from universities around the world for a week-long case competition at the start of January. This not-for-profit event is the largest and oldest MBA case competition in the world and is organized by a team of students enrolled in the John Molson MBA program. The event will be celebrating its 36th anniversary between January 1 and 6, 2017 at the Bonaventure Hotel in downtown Montreal.The John Molson MBA International Case Competition (MBA ICC) is a joining of the business community. Whether you’re looking to gain experience, compete or network, there are many exciting opportunities to get involved.ORGANIZING TEAM: The organizing team is composed of four (4) organizers and five (5) executive assistants. Each member is responsible for predetermined tasks, ex: Sponsorships, Marketing, Schools, Volunteers, IT, Logistics, Judges, Events and Sustainability. The event requires nearly one year of planning whereby student organizers have the support of an academic advisor and an advisory board composed of CEOs, presidents, chairmen and vice-presidents of major multinational corporations. Organizing the MBA ICC is a fantastic way to sharpen your skills in a non-academic environment. Students obtain either 3 or 6 credits as part of the MBA 631: Case Competition Option.COMPETING TEAM: A team of four (4) students from the John Molson MBA program will represent Concordia at the event. They will showcase their presentation abilities and problem-solving skills to a real-life and fast-paced competition. The format is a round-robin tournament consisting of seven unpublished business cases which are selected from among the top entries from the annual Case Writing Competition. The highlight of the week is a live case presentation by a major company facing a real-life business challenge. Students train for a minimum of four months prior to the event and are selected from the MANA 691: Strategies in Action Course.VOLUNTEERING: Each year, the organizing team recruits approximately 400 volunteers to assist in running the event. We encourage all Concordia students to volunteer, and welcome volunteers from outside the university. Volunteering represents a great networking opportunity and puts you in direct contact with corporate executives and visiting MBA candidates from around the globe. Learn more about volunteering.Check out the highlights from last year’s competition held at the Fairmont Queen Elizabeth Hotel in January 2016:Presentations are free to attend and open to the public, please arrive early to secure a good seat.
WhenJanuary 1 - 6, 2017Where
 
Bonaventure Hotel
 900, de La Gauchetière Ouest
Montréal, Québec, Canada  H5A 1E4© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityJohn Molson MBA International Case CompetitionJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            Follow the competitionAttend the competitionConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424