http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/web/glossary/colleges.htmlConcordia University’s Faculty of Arts and Science has three colleges, two schools and two institutes. These small learning communities prepare students for the world outside the classroom, and for their role as engaged global citizens.These units offer enriching, challenging, and stimulating academic experiences where teaching and learning are approached from multiple and global perspectives. Within these units, a variety of programs are available: honours, majors, minors as well as certificates.No, choosing a college, institute or school is entirely optional and is not required when applying.These units provide an intimate, small school experience inside a big university. The scholarship within the units is distinctly interdisciplinary, and students from a variety of different academic backgrounds join these units. Members also take part in special interest seminars and guest lectures.Completing a program in these units can complement and enhance a student's degree. The enriched curriculum will serve students well beyond graduation.Admission requirements vary by program within the units. Applicants should check their program of interest online for specific admission requirements. Being a member of one of these units will not require taking extra courses; they form part of the student's degree.All of the colleges, institutes and schools are housed within the Faculty of Arts and Science however students in other Faculties may still apply for a minor offered in one of these units (if their program structure permits).The Concordia Institute for Canadian Jewish Studies is dedicated to the study of the Canadian Jewish experience through research, education, and community partnerships. The Institute hosts the Chair in Canadian Jewish Studies, who leads the Institute and forges collaborations in the Canadian Jewish community.Would you like to explore, through the Great Books program, the foundations and development of Western civilization and culture? The Liberal Arts College, a small community of fellows and students, provides a unique liberal arts emphasis within the Faculty of Arts and Science. Built on a core of eight courses (with Major, Minor and Honours options), the multidisciplinary, textually-disciplined curriculum is designed to guide students in exploring who we are and where we have come.Would you like to expand your knowledge of how individuals and society can operate more consciously in a global context of increased inter-cultural contact? Loyola College for Diversity and Sustainability is an interdisciplinary college within the faculty of Arts and Science that provides students with an opportunity to delve into some of the most complex and challenging issues facing humankind in the 21st century from a global, multicultural perspective.Are you fascinated by the history and culture of Ireland and the Irish experience abroad, especially in Canada and Quebec? Would you like to explore issues related to: Colonialism, Cultural Nationalism, Famine, Linguistic Preservation, Rebellion and Independence, Dual Sectarian Traditions, Emigration and Diaspora? The School of Canadian Irish Studies offers students opportunities to become familiar with Ireland’s complex history and rich cultural traditions, at home and abroad; appreciate their own specific areas of study by understanding the issues stemming from Ireland’s role at the centre of British and European history for more than four hundred years; take courses in History, Literature, Music, Film, Theatre, Irish Language, Geography, Political Science, Women’s Studies and Art; and study in Ireland.Are you intrigued by the formulation and implementation of public policy in Quebec and Canada? The School of Community and Public Affairs offers a multidisciplinary program in public policy analysis. The School prepares its graduates to be knowledgeable participants in the policy making process in the private, public, and community sectors.Would you like to prepare for a life of research, teaching or some similarly demanding intellectual pursuit in a profession in the sciences? Science College prepares students enrolled in one of Concordia’s science programs for these kinds of careers in the sciences. The academic program of the College complements the regular undergraduate curriculum and includes cross disciplinary courses and student participation in ongoing laboratory research activities right from the first year of study.Do you want to learn more about women in society? The Simone de Beauvoir Institute offers a variety of exciting courses which explore the historical and contemporary aspects of women’s oppression and resistance. We examine how women have been excluded from public life, and what women have done to change things for the better—in both the public and private spheres. Our courses address local, national and global women’s issues, and different Selected Topics Courses offer insight and dialogue into the most recent debates in feminist scholarship and action.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityColleges, Institutes and SchoolsFAQs (Frequently Asked Questions)More information...Join the conversationJoin the conversationJoin the conversationJoin the conversationWhat is a College, Institute, School? 
                
            
                
					
                    Do you have to choose a college, institute or school when applying?
                
            
                
					
                    What is the benefit of adding a college, institute or school?
                
            
                
					
                    Are there extra requirements for admission into the colleges, institutes, schools?Would they take more of my time, like taking extra courses? 
                
            
                
					
                    Are the colleges, institutes, schools limited to a certain faculty?
                
            
                
					
                    Concordia Institute of Canadian Jewish Studies
                
            
                
					
                    Liberal Arts College
                
            
                
					
                    Loyola College for Diversity and Sustainability
                
            
                
					
                    School of Canadian Irish Studies
                
            
                
					
                    School of Community and Public Affairs
                
            
                
					
                    Science College
                
            
                
					
                    Simone de Beauvoir InstituteConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424