http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/mba/beyond-the-classroom/community-service/community-engagedscholarship1.htmlIn response to specific requests, teams of faculty members and students develop and conduct programs to:Students, faculty and staff are encouraged to volunteer for projects that address specific community needs, by matching their skills and interests with the needs of community organizations and /or agencies. 
The grade nine (9) Class at the Study, an all girl’s private bilingual school in Montreal, is engaged in an entrepreneurship course that is unique in North America. The focus of the course is to teach students the fundamentals of entrepreneurship with an emphasis on marketing and business etiquette in different countries. This year, as part of the course, seven teams of six students each, will research and select a Quebec made product and launch it in China.

The seven teams comprise 3 teams in group A and 4 teams in group B. Each team will research and select a Quebec-made product, contact the local manufacturer and explain the project and, invite their assistance primarily with providing product information and samples. Teams establish contact with a host school in China and conduct market research and test product samples. They learn how to position the product and how to develop the appropriate marketing mix. They learn how to work in teams and how to design, set up and run a trade fair booth. A group comprising two representatives from each team, will travel to JiangMen China in March 2010 and present the products at a trade fair. Upon their return from China, teams will provide written reports to the local manufacturers on their findings and experiences. Also later this year, the teams will return the favour and host students from the host school in China who will select Chinese products to be marketed in Quebec.
Have a team of two MBA students provide technical support and business counselling - to teams of grade nine students - on the entrepreneurial processes necessary to launch Quebec-made products in China.
The students will work with the course instructors to:Volunteers: Sherin Al Safadi, MBA 2010 and Mirella Mokbel, MBA 2010Faculty, experts, and other practitioners present on topics of interest to the internal and external communities. Community organizations and agencies exhibit and /or showcase their products and / or services.

Please see the list of community organizations that have taken part in our previous showcases on the right.

Online question-and-answer sessions are facilitated between community partners and designated students, faculty members and staff volunteers with the relevant expertise© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityCommunity servicesJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessLearn about our students work with The Study's Grade 9 Entrepreneurship classCommunity and economic development training programsVolunteer assistance & placement
Speaker series / Exhibitions / ShowcasesAsk–an-expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424OverviewObjectiveSpecific activities: