http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/undergraduate/bachelor/students/course-registration.htmlAre you a new JMSB student? You must watch the orientation videos to receive permission to register.
Course scheduling requires careful planning and may require periodic adjustments. In order to ensure that you successfully complete all program requirements, we highly recommend that you use the Program Planning Worksheets to map out your course selections for the next several terms, keeping in mind that certain basic prerequisite courses must be completed before other more advanced courses.JMSB students are permitted to take courses at other educational institutions for credit toward their program of study if they have achieved a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.70 in their program of study, and subject to the following:You must complete a CREPUQ student request and wait for both the JMSB Undergraduate Programs Office and Concordia’s Enrolment Services to approve it before it passes to your host university for review. Please make every effort to apply as early as possible for CREPUQ transfers.Upon completion of the course, credits and grades attained at the host university are transferred to your Concordia academic record. This is an automatic process.A student who wishes to take courses at Canadian educational institutions outside Quebec must submit a written request for approval to the office of the Director, Student Academic Services (MB 4.201). The request must include the following details:Complete requests are normally processed within two weeks from the date of submission. Courses taken without prior permission will not be transferred.You must successfully complete the pre-approved course(s) to be awarded transfer credit; however, the grade(s) are not recorded on your student record or transcript. The university does not guarantee the number of credits that will be transferred to your JMSB program prior to successful completion of the courses. In all cases, you must request an official transcript be sent from your host university to Concordia’s Office of the Registrar for credit verification.If you would like more information about visiting status, contact Ms. Amanda Holt at MB 4.201.JMSB students are also eligible to take courses at universities all over the world as part of our Concordia Student Exchange Program or as a Visiting International Fee-Paying exchange student.JMSB Undergraduate Student Affairs Office
514-848-2424, ext. 2721

JMSB Certificates Advising
 Current JMSB Certificate students may book appointments online.BComm/BAdmin Academic Advising
 For current BComm/BAdmin students only.Walk-in Advising (MB-4.201)Note: Print your Advisement Report.Appointments for What-If ScenariosBook an advising appointmentAppointments with Prof. Monir Wahhab:
514-848-2424, ext. 2723Quick Advising (outside MB-4.201)

JMSB Admissions Appointments
 Please choose the correct appointment type for your situation:JMSB internal degree transfer info sessionsAdvising for current or future Independent StudentsGeneral admissions appointments (non-Independent Students)Mon. to Fri.: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 

*University closes at 1 p.m. on Fridays during the summerSir George Williams Campus
MB 4.201 (see map)© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityCourse registrationJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            Note:Contact usOpening hoursLocationOnce you have received permission to register:
                
            
                
					
                    General advice
                
            
                
					
                    Within Quebec (INTU – Interuniversity)
                
            
                
					
                    Other Canadian provinces (visiting status)
                
            
                
					
                    International (CSEP / VIFP)Taking courses at other Educational InstitutionsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424