http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/maps/directions.htmlConcordia University’s two campuses are easily accessible by air, train, bus, or car, and a free shuttle bus service joins the two.Sir George Williams Campus, located in the heart of Montreal, is within walking distance to movie theatres, shops, the underground city, and public transportation. It is an urban campus, having developed around an existing downtown core. The visual arts, the John Molson School of Business, and Engineering and Computer Science are housed downtown, as well as many Arts and Science programs.The west-end campus, Loyola, is located 7 km away in a leafy residential neighbourhood, with gothic-style buildings that date to the early-20th century. The performing arts and Communication Studies and Journalism are housed exclusively at Loyola, and many other programs, including the sciences in a state-of-the-art building, offer courses on this campus as well. Some student residences are to be found at Loyola, as well as the Oscar Peterson Concert Hall, a theatre and a chapel.If you’re travelling by air, flights from North America and abroad now come into Montréal-Trudeau Airport, 22 km west of downtown Montreal. The Aérobus bus service to downtown Montreal costs $14 one way (as of June 2007). Upon arrival at the terminus on Berri and de Maisonneuve Sts., either take a taxi or the subway (métro) to the Welcome Centre, which is located in the J.W. McConnell Building, Room LB 185-40, 1400 de Maisonneuve Boulevard West (1400, boul. de Maisonneuve ouest). If you take the subway, travel in the Angrignon direction (green line) and exit at the Guy-Concordia stop; the Welcome Centre is one block east on De Maisonneuve.Another option from the airport is to take the #204 public transit bus heading to the Dorval bus terminal, then take the #211 heading downtown. Get off at Lionel-Groulx métro (subway) station, and take the green line in the Honoré-Beaugrand direction, to Guy-Concordia station. Concordia’s Welcome Centre is the Welcome Centre is one block east on De Maisonneuve.If you take a taxi from the airport to downtown there is a flat rate of $35.See the Aéroports de Montréal website for further transportation information.For those wishing to go directly to the Loyola Campus, a commuter train links the Dorval bus terminal to Montreal West (Montréal-Ouest) station, which is a short walk from the campus. Be sure to check a schedule first, since commuter trains are few and far between outside of rush hour. A taxi ride from the airport to Loyola campus costs about $25.Travelling to Montreal by train will bring you to Central Station, which is just a few blocks from Concordia on René-Lévesque Blvd. West, near Mansfield Street (Blvd. Réné-Lévesque Ouest et rue Mansfield) You may either walk to the Welcome Centre, at the J.W. McConnell Building, Room LB 185-40, 1400 de Maisonneuve Boulevard West (1400, boul. de Maisonneuve ouest), or take a short taxi ride.If you want to go directly to the Loyola campus and are coming from Toronto or Ottawa on VIA Rail, trains stop at Dorval Station, at which point you may either take a taxi to Loyola or transfer to the commuter train to Montreal West (Montréal-Ouest) station, which is a short walk from the campus. Be sure to check a schedule first, since commuter trains are few and far between outside of rush hour.Train schedules are available online at VIA Rail (for journeys within Canada) and Amtrak (for journeys from the USA). Commuter train schedules are available from the the Agence métropolitaine de transport (AMT).The Berri-UQAM station is the final destination for all bus lines into the city. Upon arrival you may either take a taxi or take the métro (subway), which is located below the bus station. Travel in the Angrignon direction (green line) and exit at the Guy-Concordia stop; the Welcome Centre is one block east on De Maisonneuve (Room LB 185-40, 1400 de Maisonneuve Boulevard West).To get to Loyola, take the orange line from Berri-UQAM, heading towards Côte-Vertu, and exit at Vendôme station. From Vendôme, take the #105 bus, which travels west along Sherbrooke Street (rue Sherbrooke) to the campus, at 7141 Sherbrooke St. West (7141 rue Sherbrooke Ouest).Highway map of the Greater Montreal area© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityDirectionsCampus maps
            
                Campus mapsBy airBy trainBy bus or subwayBy automobileConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424