http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/education/programs/graduate/educational-technology-ma.htmlThe programs in Educational Technology prepare a new breed of educator who can identify educational problems and apply developments in psychology, information/communication and technology, management and systems analysis to solve them. Graduates work as researchers, consultants, producers and evaluators of educational media, designers and planners of instructional/training systems, knowledge engineers and faculty in educational, corporate, government and NGO contexts.Research interests include:MA students develop a program of study best suited to their individual academic, research and professional goals. A thesis or thesis-equivalent option appeals to students who want to conduct research or evaluation studies in the field. A non-thesis internship option is offered for students who wish to develop professional skills.The program offers course themes to assist students in the selection of their elective courses and in the academic focus of their thesis presentation or internship practicum. Each theme has a set of recommended courses designed to impart knowledge about and understanding of learning and instructional theories, methodologies and practical skills. They also address performance issues that call for interventions involving management approaches, job design, tool use and incentive systems. The themes include:Learn more about our faculty research. Degree optionsOption AThesis or Thesis-equivalent for students wishing to conduct field research or evaluation studies, or wish to pursue doctoral studies.As part of the MA program, students taking the thesis or thesis-equivalent option can undertake a supervised field experience that adds a “practicum” aspect to their resumé. This practicum involves such activities as needs analysis, materials design or production, systems analysis and design, research or training. Students then prepare a thesis or thesis-equivalent and oral defence. A thesis-equivalent is the production or evaluation of educational materials designed to achieve specific objectives.1. Core courses for the thesis/thesis-equivalent option. (12 credits):2. Elective Courses: 15 credits chosen from the list of elective courses offered in consultation with the advisor3. Thesis or thesis-equivalent:Note: A thesis is a scholarly document produced to present the findings of a study. A thesis-equivalent entails the production or evaluation of educational materials to achieve specific objectives (e.g. an educational television production or a computer-based instructional program).Option BNon-thesis Internship for students who wish to develop professional skills in an extended practicum with corporate, school, government or NGO clients.Students taking the non-thesis internship option must perform a supervised 675 hours practicum involving program-related practice with a private or public sector organization. To complete degree requirements, they must then prepare an Internship Report using a case study format that includes a conclusion and recommendations.1. Core Courses for the internship option (15 credits):2. Elective Courses: 12 credits chosen from the list of elective courses offered in consultation with the advisor.3. Internship:Degree requirementsProgram bookletPrior to applying, please download the Educational Technology proram booklet.General requirementsEntry into the program requires a bachelor's/baccalaureate degree with an average of B (GPA 3.0) or higher in the major field of study.Language proficiencyInternational applicants: whose first language is neither English nor French: iBTOEFL (90+) or paper-based TOEFL (577+), or IELTS (7.0+).Application processApplicants must complete a Graduate Admission Application and submit supporting documents to the Graduate Admissions Application Centre. This includes:*Fall: Late applications may be considered until April 30.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Opportunities exist for MA students to work as teaching and research assistants within the department. The selection process is competitive. Preference is given to experienced applicants with an aptitude for the work to be performed.

Students interested in teaching assistantships must complete and submit hard copies of the following forms, along with their curriculum vitae, to the Department/Internship Administrator:Research assistants participate in funded projects and are hired by the individual faculty members conducting the research.514-848-2424 ext. 2030
estu@education.concordia.ca© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityEducational Technology (MA)Department of Education
            
                Department of Education
            Key resourcesJoin the conversationFaculty research areas
                
            
                
					
                    Program options & degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admissions requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Financial support, assistantships & internships
                
            
                
					
                    Academic regulationsWhy pursue a Master's in educational technology?Program detailsQuestions?Masters/Magisteriate (MA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424