http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/events/artsci/chemistry/2016/12/09/eisler-16.htmlProf. Sara Eisler
Department of Chemistry
University of New BrunswickWe have found that intramolecular, nucleophilic cyclization reactions can be performed under mild conditions to give a variety of p-extended isoindolinone (IIN), pyrrolone, and pyridinone containing products in high yields.  Multiple cyclizations can be performed simultaneously within a single molecule, and these extended systems are thermally stable, easily functionalizable, and strongly fluorescent.  In addition, controlled switching between isomeric forms of the IINs can be induced when exposed to UV and visible light, thus representing an entirely new family of multi-stable molecular switches.  We have used the sequential E-Z isomerizations of photoresponsive IIN moieties to build multi-stable molecular switches with unusual switching motifs. These systems can be reversibly and controllably transformed between several different stable conformations, and will respond to orthogonal stimuli. The synthesis, electronic properties, and switching characteristics of several responsive IIN-containing small molecules will be presented.  BioSara Eisler obtained her BSc. from the University of Alberta in 1998. While working for Prof. Rik Tykwinski during the summer months of her final year, she developed a rather unhealthy obsession with alkynes, causing her to stay on in the Tykwinski group to obtain her Ph. D. A post-doctoral position at ETH-Zürich in the group of Prof. François Diederich followed, where organic materials chemistry (and alkynes) were set aside to investigate gene transfection vectors. She subsequently moved to Montreal in 2006 to work with Professor Jim Wuest to study crystal engineering. Since joining the faculty at the University of New Brunswick in 2008 as an assistant professor, she has continued to design and synthesize organic materials. In her spare time, Sara likes to drink whisky and practice Ashtanga yoga, although rarely at the same time.She is the guest of Dr. Pat Forgione© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
                        Synthesis, Cyclizations, and Switches: Controlling Regiochemistry, and Molecular Motion, in π-Extended HeterocyclesDr. Sara Eisler(U.N.B)Department of Journalism
            
                Department of JournalismConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424