http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2015/11/05/emerging-artists-at-new-art-consignment-shop.htmlHow cool would it be to decorate your living space with artwork purchased directly from an up-and-coming artist at the university? Well, here’s your chance.Opening on Wednesday, November 11, the new Art Consignment Shop, located in the mezzanine of the Henry F. Hall Building, sells works produced by students in the Faculty of Fine Arts at competitive prices.“We got way more submissions than we expected,” says Sarah Pupo, a graduate of the Master of Fine Arts program who was appointed to coordinate the operations of the shop.Potential clients are already showing up. “People are popping their heads in, expressing lots of interest.”The shop provides the chance for student creators to earn some cash and gain visibility outside of the faculty. Customers get access to unique artwork at rates that won’t break the bank. The artists set the prices for their pieces, with a portion going toward the costs of running the space.Submissions include drawings, paintings, prints, photos, sculptures and ceramics, as well as miniatures, zines and small publications, handmade paper, cards, postcards and design projects.This pilot project is backed by the Office of the Vice-President of Services, which supports initiatives on campus such as the Green Space, held last year in the same venue, which raised awareness about sustainability research. Campus Retail Stores is providing support and expertise.
Check out the new Art Consignment Shop, located in the mezzanine of the Henry F. Hall Building.The opening cocktail is on Wednesday, November 11, from 5 to 7 p.m. You can also shop at the Farmers’ Market right next door from noon to 6 p.m.After November 11, the shop’s regular opening hours are 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. from Monday to Friday.  
        Concordia is front and centre on Montreal's new public art website
    
        Bittersweet mysteries of the universe
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityDecorate your digs with a Concordia originalDepartment of Art History
            
                Department of Art History
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424