http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/geography-planning-environment/programs/undergraduate/environmental-geography-bsc.htmlExplore the relationships between people and the landscape, whether it’s your own backyard or a vast region on the other side of the planet.  As an Environmental Geography major, you’ll take courses in geography, geology and biology, and enjoy the flexibility to complement your studies in another field of interest.Through labs, lectures and projects, you’ll acquire the analytical skills to assess the impact of human activity on natural landforms and cycles. During the program you’ll also:After graduation, your knowledge and technical skills will prepare you for a career in environmental planning, design and restoration, environmental assessment or resource management.A Bachelor of Science degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background.Concentrations:More information
Minimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may changedepending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
 Sample classes:
More informationOur facilities feature the latest technology that will give you experience with the tools that professionals use in the field. These include:There is a growing demand for geographers and environmental scientists. Many employers require researchers to conduct environmental assessments for major projects. Employers also seek technical specialists in computer-assisted cartography and GIS. Environmental Geography alumni have established careers in a range of fields including:Recent graduates have become researchers with the NAFTA Commission for Environmental Cooperation and the Secretariat of the UN Convention on Biodiversity.Learn more about your career options.
Find out more. 
© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityEnvironmental Geography (BSc)Department of Geography, Planning & Environment
            
                Department of Geography, Planning & Environment
            Key resourcesJoin the conversationDegree options
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Facilities
                
            
                
					
                    After your degree
                
            
                
					
                    Environmental geography at ConcordiaWhy study Environmental Geography?Program DetailsBachelor of Science (BSc)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Cegep StudentsMinimum Cut-off Averages