http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2015/08/03/everything-you-need-to-know-about-orientation.html
Launching your university career at Concordia — getting to know your way around campus and meeting your new classmates — is exciting.But it can be a lot to take in, which is why Concordia’s Student Services organize a comprehensive and fun program of orientation activities, designed to give new students all the information they need to start their educational journey on the right foot.“Orientation is a great way to get your bearings and meet key people in your faculty before classes start” says Emily Fjeldsted, manager of services for new students at the Student Success Centre.“That way, when you show up on your first day it’s not so overwhelming.”Here are some of the main orientation activities coming your way.
 Over the course of two days, Start Right offers workshops on everything from using Concordia’s libraries to problem solving and improving academic writing.It’s designed like an academic conference, with morning and afternoon sessions, along with round-table discussions and a reception event.  “Start Right is a great way to brush up on key academic skills before starting your first term.” says Fjeldsted. “We’ve lined up some of the most popular workshops given by our Learning Specialists to help students make a successful start.”Start Right takes places from August 29 to August 30, 2016 and is open to all first-time Concordia students. Please visit the Start Right web page and register.Discover Concordia takes place on three days: August 31, September 1 and September 2, with each day dedicated to different faculties. It is your chance to meet key people in your faculty, and learn about resources for getting the most out of your university experience.Let the Discover Concordia Passport guide you through the Information Fair where you’ll have the chance to connect with student groups and Student Services.  The more information you gather, the more prepared you will be for your first year. There’s also the chance to win prizes.Each daily event ends with a barbecue — a perfect opportunity to get acquainted with your future classmates.
 Learn the ins and outs of your new campus on one of the New Student Tours, led by a Concordia Student Success Mentor. There are two types of tours on offer: Faculty-specific tours and general campus tours of both the SGW and Loyola campus. The faculty-specific tours run from mid-July to the end of August, led by student mentors from the faculty in question. The student mentors go into depth about the buildings and information that applies specifically to the relevant faculty.General campus tours run from August until the first week of class, lead by student mentors, who give an overview of buildings and focus on information and services.Plus, the mentors are more than happy to answer any other questions you may have. Sign up for a tour now!
My Action Plan (MAP) to Success helps identify your strengths and weaknesses as you prepare to start your university career.To create a personalized action plan, you will fill out a questionnaire and then meet with an educational counsellor in a small group setting who will help you interpret your results and give you tips how to access resources tailored to your needs.Graduate Student Orientation is taking place on September 1. It features a speaker series covering important information that applies specifically to graduate students.“After the speaker series, graduate students are encouraged to attend the Information Fair, learning about on-campus resources. Then, they can get to know their new fellow grad students at a BBQ,” says Fjeldsted.“It’s a great way to get a snapshot of the graduate community at Concordia and meet other new graduate students.” Please register prior to the event.Of course, international students are invited to attend all of the events listed above. However, there are also specific orientation activities geared towards students who are new to Montreal.  Check out all of the Welcome International Students Events and Workshops available and find a date and time that works for you.In addition to the main Concordia orientation activities, the school’s academic departments hold program-specific information sessions, some of which are mandatory. Be sure to check your department’s website for dates and times.The Concordia Student Union (CSU) also organizes fun, student-run frosh activities. Check out the CSU’s website — or if you’re a graduate student, the Graduate Student Association’s website — to find activities that interest you.
Check out the full list of Concordia's 2016 orientation events and don’t forget to register in advance. 
  
        5 reasons to attend Orientation 2016
    
        5 great places to start your student job hunt at Concordia
    
        8 awesome Concordia student services
    
        Gearing up for a fun and safe Orientation/Frosh 2016
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityOrientation 2016: everything you need to knowNews
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsLatest storiesMost popularOPINION: Big Pharma’s troubles are good news for innovationConcordia receives funding for 5 Canada Research ChairsThe fight against fake newsConcordia receives $2 million to advance smart-grid technology‘Student success is more gratifying than any prize’13 essential tips for exam successTo nap or not to nap? Sleep tips for ConcordiansJason Camlot wins the Donald Gray Prize for best Victorian Studies essay‘We are conducting research in a living lab’What's it like to meet  the Oracle of Omaha?Start Right
Discover ConcordiaTake a tour!
MAP to Success
Graduate orientation
International students
More orientation events to check outFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424