http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/students/international/health-insurance/exemptions.htmlOnly certain International students are eligible to be exempted from the Blue Cross Health Insurance Plan for International Students.  International students who have health insurance provided by their employer or through a parent’s plan are not eligible for an exemption from the Concordia Blue Cross Health Insurance Plan for International Students.As a result of intergovernmental agreements, full-time students from the countries listed above who were covered under their government’s medical system before their arrival in Quebec, will be eligible for the Quebec medical benefits (called Quebec Medicare Card or Carte d’Assurance-Maladie du Québec) at no cost.To obtain a Quebec Medicare Card, students must be registered full-time for courses and present the following documents to the office, called Québec Medicare Office or, in French, Régie de l'Assurance Maladie du Québec (RAMQ):* Proof of insurance, or a certificate of affiliation with the health plan of their country of origin:**The forms issued by the Caisse des Français à l’étranger (CFE) for use by French students registered as insured persons or dependants of an insured person are accepted.In order to apply for the Québec Medicare Card you must go in person and take with you all necessary documents as mentioned above at the address indicated below. A $9.00 fee (plus tax) will be charged to take your photograph.  425 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W., 3rd floor, metro McGill (exit Union Street)
 514-864-3411
 ramq.gouv.qc.caInternational students who receive a scholarship from a sponsoring organization or government (such as CIDA, ICCS, CBIE, WUSC) that includes health insurance and tuition fees are eligible to opt-out of the Blue Cross Health Insurance Plan for International Students.To complete the opt-out process, students must visit the ISO in person with their scholarship letters. The scholarship letter should clearly mention the group health insurance coverage as well as the duration of the policy. The duration of the exemption would be based on the dates indicated on the scholarship letter.  Refugee claimants and convention refugees are eligible to opt-out of the Blue Cross Health Insurance Plan for International Students if they show proof of medical coverage by the Canadian or Quebec Government. Students who have a valid Quebec Medicare card / Carte d’assurance maladie du Québec are eligible to opt out of the Blue Cross Health Insurance Plan for International Students. 
International Students who become Permanent Residents of Canada are eligible to opt out of the Blue Cross Health Insurance Plan for International Students once they show proof of their Permanent Resident status, such as the Record of Landing document. An exemption/adjustment will be based on the date the International Students Office receives the Record of Landing document.New Permanent Residents are eligible to apply for a Quebec Medicare card, and are encouraged to do so as soon as their status changes. The Quebec Medicare card will be issued approximately three months following the application. We recommend that new Permanent Residents maintain the Blue Cross Health Insurance Plan for International Students, and only opt out once they have received their Quebec Medicare Card.The proof must be presented in English or French indicating the period and amount of coverage available in Canada. You must present one of the listed below documents to the International Students Office, Hall Building, room 653:This information is required by the Ministère de l’Éducation, de l’Enseignement supérieur et de la Recherche and must be in the Concordia student’s file for audits and reports.Should this coverage (private or government plan) expire during the academic year, you are responsible for extending the coverage and providing proof of it to the ISO; otherwise, you will be automatically registered in the Blue Cross Health Insurance Plan for International Students and charged the respective health insurance fees.Since health insurance fees are charged on a yearly basis when you register for courses or CIP (Continuing in Program), you will have to repeat the process each year in September when health insurance fees are automatically charged on your student account. Even if your proof of insurance (for example, your Medicare card) is valid longer than the current benefit year, you still need to repeat the opt-out process every September. Otherwise, you will be automatically registered in the Blue Cross Health Insurance Plan for International Students and charged the respective health insurance fees.
Adjustments or cancellations will be based on the date the ISO receives a copy of the above-mentioned supporting documentation. Insurance plans are based on a monthly rate from the first day of the month to the last day of the month. As such, and in order for the student to obtain the fullest refund, the request for adjustments or cancellations should be made prior to the first day of the month.Refunds are provided in the form of credit to the student’s university account.  Students may leave a credit on their student account and it will automatically be applied to fees owing in the next semester(s).  To request a cheque refund, you may follow this step-by-step guide.
Retroactive refunds will only be considered and provided where supporting documents can prove that health insurance coverage has been maintained continuously from the beginning of the required insurance period. Where the supporting documents do not indicate health insurance coverage, the monthly fee charged will not be refunded.  Students who qualify for an exemption and who have filed a claim under Blue Cross Plan for International Students can only receive a retroactive refund for the period (months) following the claim.(514) 848-2424, ext. 3515Fax: 514-848-3599iso@concordia.ca 
Contact our staffJoin us on FacebookSir George Williams Campus
H-653 (see map)
1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W.Office hours
Monday to Friday, 9 a.m. - 5 p.m.                          Wednesdays, 11:45 a.m. - 5 p.m.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityEligibility for exemptionsStudent hub
            
                Student hub
            Private health insurance plans are not acceptedIMPORTANTHow to opt out of the Blue Cross Health Insurance Plan for International StudentsCitizens of Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Greece, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal and Sweden
                
            
                
					
                    Certain scholarship students
                
            
                
					
                    Refugee claimants
                
            
                
					
                    Holders of a valid Quebec Medicare card
                
            
                
					
                    Permanent Residents
                
            International Students OfficeWho qualifies for an exemptionHow often should you repeat the opt-out process
Deadlines for opting out of the Blue Cross Health Insurance Plan for International StudentsRefundsContact usLocation & hoursServices and resourcesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424