http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/english/programs/creative-writing/programs/frequently-asked-questions.htmlNo. The creative writing program receives over two hundred portfolios each year to be read, and so it is necessary that there is a page limit to the portfolio.No, the letter of intent does not count as part of the 15-page portfolio, but the letter of intent/portfolio must be submitted together. The letter of intent should be a maximum of 2 pages.Yes. But please ensure that the excerpt is long enough for us to evaluate the writing properly.  A paragraph or two is not sufficient.A good portfolio is one that represents the best writing of which you are capable. The best tip is to follow the instructions, and to proofread. Read more information and the guidelines.Be as concise as possible. Your passion for reading and writing is a given, so concentrate on concrete reasons as to why you feel the program is right for you and what you want to learn from us. We accept around 75 students. In other words, only about 30% of those who apply get accepted.We try to teach you how to read analytically, think cogently and write elegantly.All good writing is creative. Therefore, any job/career that demands writing skills may be open to you. No, they are to be sent/delivered in hard copy directly to the Department of English.If you have applied on a university application, you will be hearing from Admissions, if you are a current BA student at Concordia University, you will receive an email from the Department of English.Yes, it is important to list your university ID number on your letter of intent/portfolio, so the department can communicate internally regarding your application, or directly with you, if necessary.We do give allowance for the mail. However, if they arrive significantly past the deadline, your application may be considered only for the next admissions period.No. Unfortunately, due to the high volume of applications received, it is not possible to give feedback on every submission. © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFrequently Asked QuestionsDepartment of English
            
                Department of English1. Can I submit a portfolio of more than 15-pages?
                
            
                
					
                    2. Does the letter of intent count as part of the 15-page portfolio?
                
            
                
					
                    3. Can I submit an excerpt from a screenplay or a story in my portfolio?
                
            
                
					
                    4. What makes a good portfolio, how can my portfolio be accepted, any tip on a good/acceptable portfolio?
                
            
                
					
                    5. What are you looking for in the letter of intent?
                
            
                
					
                    6. How many students get accepted to the program each year?
                
            
                
					
                    7. What does creative writing teach?
                
            
                
					
                    8. What kind of jobs/careers are there in creative writing?
                
            
                
					
                    9. Can I upload my portfolio/letter of intent?
                
            
                
					
                    10. How do I know if I am accepted?
                
            
                
					
                    11. Should I have a university ID number?
                
            
                
					
                    12. Will you accept the portfolio/letter of intent after the deadline?
                
            
                
					
                    13. If my portfolio is denied, can I meet with someone to get feedback for my next application?Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424