http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/mba/alumni/gabriela-zorrilla.htmlWhy did you decide to do an MBA?I decided to do the MBA because I wanted to get a better understanding of business, I was enjoying what I was doing, but my tasks and knowledge were very focused and narrow. I knew that an MBA would give me a broader view of business, and some of the tools required to eventually take on a management position. Why did you choose the John Molson School of Business?At JMSB they made me feel important and involved from the moment I asked for information the first time, they were really nice and helpful. I was also really impressed by all of the extracurricular activities, and the very diverse background of the students. Where are you working now?I am working as a Business Planner for Bombardier Business Aircraft, and it was thanks to the JMSB program that I got a job with this company. One of the VP’s at Bombardier was a member of the John Molson MBA International Case Competition when I was an organizer and he recruited me. JMSB’s Career Management Services coached me through the hiring process to make sure that I got a position that I would really enjoy, in a company where I would be able to grow. How did your MBA affect your career?It completely changed it: from being focused on specific tasks, to working in a very strategic and comprehensive position that I really enjoy. How did you enjoy your time in the Program?I had a blast; I was involved in a lot of extracurricular activities like the Speaker Series Committee, Women in Business Club, and I also participated as an organizer in some case competitions. Besides having fun, and learning a lot, it was through one of these activities that I got my job. Do you still maintain contact with members from your graduating class and/or the school?Yes, I do, I made really good friends in the program, and I still attend a lot of the alumni activities; I was also a mentor in the Women in Business Club.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityGabriela Zorrilla, MBA ‘07John Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424A program that values individuals.