http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/geography-planning-environment/programs/graduate/geography-urban-environmental-phd.htmlThe PhD in Geography, Urban and Environmental Studies provides students with the theoretical foundation and analytical tools they need to better understand human interventions in the environment.

The PhD program provides a stimulating intellectual environment in which students are encouraged to explore multidisciplinary perspectives for critical analysis of human interventions in the environment. Students examine and apply various conceptual and methodological frameworks that fall within three broad environmental categories:PhD students develop their own research methodologies while working with faculty members and other graduate students on a shared thematic issue or particular scholarly focus, such as climate change, sustainable resource management, sustainable urban development, social and environmental justice. These research collaborative efforts involve the presentation, discussion and critical analysis of information from relevant scientific literature.

PhD students also tailor their study and research options to accommodate their individual interests and career goals. Elective course work includes:Learn more about the benefits of studying at Concordia.Requirements for the DegreeMore information Admission Requirements. The normal requirement for admission into the PhD is a Master of Arts or a Master of Science in Geography, Urban Planning, Environmental Science, or a related field of study from a recognized university. Applicants are selected on the basis of a sound academic record, strong letters of recommendation, and a convincing statement of purpose which clearly describes their academic interest in the program and intended area of research. In addition, admission is contingent on the availability of an appropriate faculty member in the Department to serve as supervisor.Upon recommendation by full-time members of the faculty of the Department of Geography, Planning and Environment, students registered in the Master of Science in Geography, Urban and Environmental Studies at Concordia University and who have shown themselves to be outstanding through performance in research may apply for permission to proceed directly to doctoral studies. Students transferring from the MSc program will be required to complete 90 credits in addition to the MSc required courses HENV 605 or 610 plus HENV 615.Proficiency in English. Any student applying from outside Canada whose first language is other than English must demonstrate proficiency in the English language by writing the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) and obtaining a minimum score of 95 on the TOEFL iBT or 587 on TOEFL PBT.Find out the applications procedures and required documents you need to apply.Applications must be received by February 1st for September admission. There is no January admission. For a complete list of application deadlines, please consult the deadlines page.
Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Consult the graduate calendar for a complete list of current courses.The department offers teaching and research assistantships to qualified PhD students. Funding is available for PhD students for specific projects upon the approval of the thesis supervisor. Each admitted PhD student will need to provide a detailed plan of the funding of the project. The funding will come from different sources (TA-ships, scholarships, stipend from supervisor research grants and part-time lecturing).

Research opportunities exist in such fields as:Applicants must complete a Graduate Admission Application and submit supporting documents to the Graduate Admissions Application Centre:For more information, please contact the Graduate Program Assistant in the Department of Geography, Planning and Environment.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityGeography, Urban and Environmental Studies (PhD)Department of Geography, Planning & Environment
            
                Department of Geography, Planning & Environment
            Program detailsKey resourcesJoin the conversationProgram requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Applications deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Assistantships & research opportunities 
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty research interests
                
            
                
					
                    Application procedures
                
            
                
					
                    Graduate handbook, forms and related documentsWhy pursue a Doctorate in Geography, Urban and Environmental Studies?Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424