http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/geography-planning-environment/programs/graduate/geography-urban-environmental-msc.htmlThe MSc in Geography, Urban and Environmental Studies provides students with the theoretical foundation and analytical tools they need to better understand human interventions in the environment.

The MSc program provides a stimulating intellectual environment in which students are encouraged to explore multidisciplinary perspectives. Students examine and apply various conceptual and methodological frameworks that fall within three broad environmental categories:MSc students develop their own research methodologies while working with faculty members and other graduate students on a shared thematic issue or particular scholarly focus, such as geographic information systems (GIS), sustainable communities or environmental change. These research collaborations involve reflection, discussion and critical analysis of ideas and information from pertinent scientific literature.

MSc students tailor their course and research options to accommodate their individual interests and career goals.Learn more about the benefits of studying at Concordia.
Requirements for the DegreeAdmission Requirements. The normal requirements for admission into the MSc (Geography, Urban and Environmental Studies) are a minimum GPA of 3.30 in a BA or BSc in Geography, Planning, or Environmental Science, or an equivalent degree in a related field of study from a recognized university. Applicants are selected on the basis of a sound undergraduate academic record, strong letters of recommendation, and a convincing statement of purpose which clearly describes their academic interest in the program and intended area of research. In addition, admission is contingent on the availability of an appropriate faculty member in the Department to serve as supervisor. Some applicants with deficiencies in their undergraduate preparation may be required to take a qualifying program. Others may be required to complete certain prerequisite courses in addition to the regular graduate program.Proficiency in English. Any student applying from outside Canada whose first language is other than English must demonstrate proficiency in the English language by writing the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) and obtaining a minimum score of 95 on the TOEFL iBT or 587 on TOEFL PBT.Find out the applications procedures and required documents you need to apply.
Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Consult the graduate calendar for a complete list of current courses.The department offers teaching and research assistantships to qualified MSc students.
 
 Funding is available for MSc students for specific projects upon the approval of the thesis supervisor.
 
 Research opportunities exist in such fields as:See all faculty research interests
Applicants must complete a Graduate Admission Application and submit supporting documents to the Graduate Admissions Application Centre:For more information, please contact the Graduate Program Assistant in the Department of Geography, Planning and Environment.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityGeography, Urban and Environmental Studies (MSc)Department of Geography, Planning & Environment
            
                Department of Geography, Planning & Environment
            Program detailsKey resourcesJoin the conversationProgram requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Applications deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Assistantships & internships
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty research interests
                
            
                
					
                    Application procedures
                
            
                
					
                    Graduate handbook, forms and related documentsWhy pursue a Master of Geography, Urban and Environmental Studies?Master of Science (MSc)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424