http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/geography-planning-environment/programs/current-students/program-requirements/graduate-programrequirements.htmlDetailed information is available in the Graduate Student Handbook.Visit the Graduate Calendar for more information on this program.Students interested in taking GEOG 625 (Directed Studies) must complete a form of agreement which will be signed by the student, the supervisor and the graduate program director. You can find the form here. The program requires 30 credits of coursework as detailed below, followed by a four-month internship placement. Following the internship, students work with a faculty supervisor to prepare and present an internship report, which can be based on work carried out during the internship. The Report is intended to document and reflect upon the internship experience and to demonstrate the student’s ability to analyze and/or critically reflect on an aspect or several aspects of the practical internship experience in light of concepts and theories acquired in their Master in Environmental Assessment program courses. Typically the entire MEnv program takes between 1.5 and 2 years to complete.Specific requirements of the degree are:Note: Elective courses within list B and C may be substituted with permission of the department based on individual student background and need.Visit the Graduate Calendar for full information on this program.
Residence: The minimum period of residence is two terms of full-time study or the equivalent in part-time study.Credits: A fully qualified candidate is required to complete a minimum of 30 credits as follows:Note: Elective courses within list B and C may be substituted with permission of the department based on individual student background and need.Visit the Graduate Calendar for full information on this program.Each admitted PhD student will need to provide a detailed plan of the funding of the project. The funding will come from different sources (TA-ships, scholarships, stipend from supervisor research grants and part-time lecturing).

Doctorate in Philosophy in Geography, Urban and Environmental Studies (PhD)
 
 1. Residence. The minimum period of residence is two years (six terms) of full-time graduate study beyond the master’s degree or three years (nine terms) of full-time graduate study (or the equivalent in part-time study) beyond the bachelor’s degree for those students who are permitted to enrol for doctoral studies without completing a master’s degree.

2. Courses. All students must take the following:
    9 credits: HENV 801, HENV 802, HENV 805.
    6 credits in elective courses chosen from: HENV 605, HENV 610, HENV 620, HENV 625, HENV 630, HENV 635, HENV 640,         HENV 645, HENV 650, HENV 655, HENV 660, HENV 665, HENV 670, HENV 675, HENV 680, or HENV 690.

3. Thesis Proposal. HENV 810 (3 credits).

4. Comprehensive exam. HENV 885 (6 credits).

5. Research and Thesis.  HENV 895 (66 credits).
 
 
 © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityGraduate program requirementsDepartment of Geography, Planning & Environment
            
                Department of Geography, Planning & EnvironmentMaster's in Geography, Urban and Environmental Studies (MSc)Key documents
Master's in Environmental Assessment (MEnv)Diploma in Environmental Assessment (DEA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424