http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/education/programs/graduate/instructional-technology-diploma.htmlThe diploma program in Instructional Technology provides professional training in the theory, methods and techniques of educational technology. It gives teachers, corporate and industrial trainers, media consultants (and others concerned with media selection, audiovisual production, computer-based instruction, the effectiveness of instruction, self instructional systems, and information exchange) an opportunity to acquire competence in the theory and applications of instructional technology. The Ministry of Education recognizes this diploma for purposes of teacher classification for persons possessing a Quebec Teacher's Certificate and an undergraduate degree.The diploma programs covers all of the areas in the MA Educational Technology, but can be completed in one calendar year of study.Program optionstudents enrolling in this 30 credit program may specialize in an area of their own professional interest by selecting courses which reflect this interest. Individualized programs of study may be designed in consultation with the student's advisor.Degree requirmentsGeneral requirementsEntry into the program requires a bachelor's degree with a major or the equivalent in any subject, and a GPA of at least 2.70. The possession of a Quebec Teacher's Certificate will be an additional prerequisite for those who wish to work in the Quebec school system. The program is open to full-time and part-time students without preference.Language proficiencyLanguage proficiencyFor students whose first language is not English or French, a test of English language proficiency is required. To fulfill this requirement you must provide one of the following: iBTOEFL (90+), or paper based TOEFL (577+), or IELTS (7.0+), or proof that you have achieved the level of Concordia's English 212 course (testing is available through Concordia's English Department) Please contact the department for further details.Application processApplicants must complete a Graduate Admission Application and submit supporting documents to the Graduate Admissions Application Centre. This includes:Questions?For all other questions contact the Graduate Advisor:
 Telephone: (514) 848.2424 ext. 2030
Email: etec@education.concordia.ca*Fall: Late applications may be considered until April 30.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Our research interests include:DR. PHILIP ABRAMI
Classroom processes (e.g., cooperative learning); research design and methodology; research synthesis; technology in the schools Students are encouraged to visit the web site of the Centre for the Study of Learning and Performance (CSLP) for an overview of some of the research being undertaken by faculty.DR. ROBERT M. BERNARD
Research on distance education and online learning; research on critical thinking' research on technology integration in education' comparative research on instructional methodologies; research design and quantitative methods; systematic review and meta-analysis.DR. SAUL CARLINER
Research on distance education and online learning; research on critical thinking' research on technology integration in education' comparative research on instructional methodologies; research design and quantitative methods; systematic review and meta-analysis.DR. ANN-LOUISE DAVIDSON
Changes brought by ICT in society and in the educational system; relationships between ICT and pedagogy; the evolution of teaching practices through the use of digital technologies; impact of digital technologies on the social integration of minorities and marginalized populations; the use of mobile technologies in a problem-based learning approach; communities of practice and professional learning communities; collaborative action research.DR. RICHARD F. SCHMID
Technology integration, particularly as applied to post-secondary education and early literacy; learning strategies; performance support systems; computer-mediated communication supporting collaborative learning and performance.DR. STEVEN SHAW
Educational computing; Pen-based computing and digital ink; learning content management; knowledge management.DR. VIVEK VENKATESH
Informative retrieval; self-regulation in online learning environments; course management systems; social computing technologies.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityInstructional Technology (Diploma)Department of Education
            
                Department of Education
            Key resourcesJoin the conversationProgram options & degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty research areasProgram overviewProgram detailsGraduate Diploma (GrDip)30 creditsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424