http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/mba/students/mba-student-profiles.htmlWhile working in the middle of the Costa Rican rainforest, my proposal for the initiative “Creation of Indigenous Homeopathic Remedies” as a revenue driver for the organization I was working for was shot down by the vice-president who said, “You only know social. You don’t know business.” At that moment I realized I needed to return to Montreal for my MBA. My goal is to acquire the strongest possible foundation in business and management to help me continue to be a relevant player in evolving domain of corporate social responsibility and international development.The John Molson MBA program has proved to be an excellent environment to accomplish this goal. A strong curriculum and fantastic colleagues foster a positive working environment where I can truly master the nuances of business.I chose Concordia University's John Molson School of Business to study and work with the best and most diverse talent in the country.My MBA concentration is strategy, finance and consulting. I am specializing with my choice of electives, the Concordia's Small Business Consulting Bureau and through extracurricular activities.
Why JMSB: The reason I chose JMSB and will continue to recommend it to prospective students is the variety of extracurricular activities and out-of-classroom projects that are available to you as part of your MBA. I have also always been passionate about consumer behavior and marketing, and the reason I decided to pursue an MBA was to change my career path and work in the consumer goods industry.Your experience in the John Molson MBA: I have been encouraged and guided to participate in case competitions from the first month I started my MBA. I have competed in a number of external case competitions as well as helped in organizing the largest case competition in the world, the John Molson MBA International Case Competition. In addition, being part of the co-op program allowed me to find out in what areas of business I would like to take more electives in.Chosen area of specialization within the MBA: I am planning on specializing in marketing and finance through electives such as: consumer behavior, marketing and consumer research, strategic marketing, investment analysis, business valuation and tax planning.Why JMSB: I chose to pursue my MBA at JMSB as I believe the program is in line with achieving my personal and professional goals. JMSB not only provides value for money, but also has wonderful opportunities to learn outside the classroom. In addition JMSB has multicultural mix of students and an experienced faculty.
Your experience in the John Molson MBA: The MBA program at JMSB has been a thrilling experience for me. Each term has been both challenging and exciting. It is great to work with people from different cultures and professional experiences, learn and apply the knowledge gained in the real world.
Chosen area of specialization within the MBA: I am specializing in marketing through my choice of electives such as Integrated Marketing Communication, the Concordia Small Business Consulting Bureau and my involvement in the MBA society.JMSB has an excellent reputation, diversity among students, affordable tuition fees, and strong relations with the Montreal business community. It is an excellent school with extensive networking opportunities and practical out-of-class activities.My John Molson MBA is in Management and this concentration was made possible via my choice of electives such as the JMSB MBA International Case Competition and the Case Competition Class. I am also the president of the MBA Society 2014-2015.Why JMSB: I chose to do my MBA at JMSB because it was a much greater fit for my educational and professional aspirations than competing programs across Canada. For me, the strength of the John Molson MBA program is that it offers so many opportunities to get involved outside the classroom and apply in-class learning and problem-solving in practical, real-world situations.Your experience in the John Molson MBA: I’m very pleased with my experience to date. I have been active in case competitions as both an organizer and participant, I am a member of multiple student clubs and organizations, and I will be doing a Community Service Initiative (MBA CSI) project this coming semester. JMSB has provided me plenty of opportunities to tailor the program to my interests and experience all sorts of challenging projects that have enabled me to analyze complicated business problems from multiple perspectives.Chosen area of specialization within the MBA: I am specializing in strategy, management and marketing through course selection, participation in extracurricular activities, and enrollment in practical out-of-classroom projects and electives.When I decided to do my MBA, I was a new manager looking to improve my skills. Since my work hours were hectic and I often traveled, I was looking for a school that was flexible and could fit into my lifestyle. Concordia offered many evening and weekend classes that made completing an MBA possible.
Why JMSB: JMSB is one of the top MBA schools in the country and is recognized internationally. I’ve chosen this program not only because of its reputation but because of the flexibility it provides to students working full-time.Your experience in the John Molson MBA: One of my fears joining as a part-time student was not being able to network and connect with students as much as I would have if I were a full-time student. However, given the abundant amount of events planned throughout the year I’ve connected and networked with far more people then I could have imagined.Chosen area of specialization within the MBA: I have not chosen a speciality yet but have chosen to opt for as many out-of-classroom/experiential learning experiences as I can. I am currently one of the 2016 John Molson MBA International Case Competition organizers responsible for Judges, Cases and Events and it is so far one of the best and most challenging experiences.Why JMSB: JMSB provides a well-rounded MBA experience with multiple opportunities for out-of-class/ experiential learning. The program is also very flexible – it accommodates the needs of students and opens door to the business community for future leaders.Your experience in the John Molson MBA: Choosing JMSB is by far one of the best decisions I have ever made. It has opened up a world of new learning experiences and business connections. Above all I met some of the best people whom I can call friends and the relationships that I build here are going to stay with me for life.Chosen area of specialization within the MBA: My focus has always been to start something on my own and it has led me to pick up management and entrepreneurship as my main area of learning. I am pursuing electives that focus on this area. I am also part of the 2016 John Molson MBA International Case Competition organizing team, which is really challenging and closest I can get to running an organization itself.Why JMSB: After completing an undergraduate degree, I knew I wanted to continue my education, but was uncertain what the right path was for me. I worked full-time in several different fields, while continuously researching graduate degree options, until I realized that an MBA would provide me with the broadest skill set to achieve my professional aspirations. After visiting several schools, I decided JMSB was the right place for me because of the possibility of part-time study and out-of-class credit options. I was also very impressed by the school's academic reputation and the highly functional and comfortable spaces in the building.Your experience in the John Molson MBA: The quantity and quality of team-work and collaborative projects has made my experience great, even surpassing my expectations. I have already developed an impressive network of competent, driven and experienced fellow students - all of whom I consider friends as well as potential colleagues and business partners.Chosen area of specialization within the MBA: The majority of my elective courses are in the field of marketing. I consider strategic communication to be a personal and professional strength. My studies in marketing provided me with a stimulating creative outlet where I can apply my personal experience in art and music, and generate new ideas.Why JMSB: I received my Bachelor of Commerce from JMSB and truly enjoyed the experience. When I decided to continue my studies naturally JMSB was at the top of my list. The flexible schedule and options to earn credits by participating in out-of-classroom projects are what convinced me.Your experience in the John Molson MBA: Pursuing my MBA at JMSB has been one of the best decisions I’ve made. The students and professors at JMSB challenge you to think beyond the obvious. The networking opportunities and student groups offered allow you to meet new people and take part in interesting projects.I joined the Women in Business Club where I was a Conference Executive Assistant and helped with the organization of their 2015 annual conference. Most recently I became an organizer of the 35th edition of the John Molson MBA International Case Competition.Upon graduation I would like to work in consulting in the hotel industry, to help small businesses grow.Why JMSB: I chose to relocate from Ottawa to Montreal in order to pursue my MBA at JMSB because of the program’s reputation and practical course options. The John Molson MBA holds ranks highly amongst Canadian programs and offers several innovative courses and initiatives where I could gain real-world experience. I am a member of the Co-operative Education Program and will have the opportunity to test-drive different industries first hand. I have a keen interest in strategy, decision support sciences, consulting and finance. Also, the opportunity to live, study and eventually work in Montreal was very appealing. Montreal is a young, vibrant city with great potential for career development.

Your experience in the John Molson MBA: The John Molson MBA program is a true community. The program is small, so that you quickly come to know your classmates and professors. The program is also highly inclusive, hosting students with very different professional and personal backgrounds. The diversity of student body further enlightens class discussions and expands networks. In addition to academics, there are extracurricular activities and clubs to suit any interest. I look forward to participating in the community as President of the JMGSA Speakers Series in 2015-16.Building on my professional background in Tourism and Hospitality, I decided to pursue an MBA with a specialization in Marketing at Concordia University. Prior to starting the MBA program, I completed the GDBA program at the John Molson School of Business; this made JMSB a natural choice for me.The MBA program has provided me with an opportunity to do a Co-op internship at a social media research company in Montreal and to do an international exchange at ESSEC Business School in Paris, France.Since entering the JMSB MBA program, I have been actively involved in the university community. In the past two years I took on the roles of the Executive in Events and of the VP Communications for the Women in Business Club (WIBC). In my recent role I was managing the WIBC social media platforms, providing visibility to the club and promoting WIBC events. I also volunteered in the 2012 and 2013 JMSB International Case Competitions.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityMBA student profilesJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessEl Nasser Amin
                
            
                
					
                    Wissam Batran
                
            
                
					
                    Negar Dastjerdi
                
            
                
					
                    Raghuram Ganesh
                
            
                
					
                    Oleksandr Kryvenko
                
            
                
					
                    Aidan Macdonald
                
            
                
					
                    Rima Moh
                
            
                
					
                    Sarah Nasr
                
            
                
					
                    Nidish pc
                
            
                
					
                    Steven Ricciardi
                
            
                
					
                    Cinzia Ruberto
                
            
                
					
                    Julia Woolsey
                
            
                
					
                    Marina YaburovaConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424