http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2016/09/27/new-book-brian-gabrial-examines-us-slavery-era-journalism-and-its-influence-today.html
The legacy of slavery in the United States remains one of the country’s deepest wounds.Examining how it shaped ideas on race, politics and economic development is key to understanding contemporary America, especially in the context of the country’s current racially charged political and social movements.Brian Gabrial, associate professor in Concordia’s Department of Journalism, sheds new light on this topic in his new book, The Press and Slavery in America, 1791–1859: The Melancholy Effect of Popular Excitement (2016)It’s a careful examination of the mainstream media’s discourse around slavery during the period beginning in the late 18th century until the beginning of the American Civil War.

We sat down with Gabrial to discuss the central elements of his new work.Brian Gabrial: The book delves into press coverage of slave revolts and conspiracies in the years leading up to the civil war. These events elicited significant press coverage about black Americans at a time when most black Americans were invisible in the news media and slavery was an issue best left unspoken about among white Americans.

By examining this press coverage we get a good sense of how attitudes around slavery evolved over time as well as how the American population was changing demographically and intellectually.BG: Slave revolts or the threat of revolt nearly always caused intense, fearful reactions by the white population. These fears were reflected in the press accounts. You have to remember that before the telegraph, newspapers relied on the stories from other newspapers, meaning that someone in New York would read the same stories as those in Louisiana, Virginia, or Montreal, for that matter.Though news delivery changed with the telegraph, newspaper language about these slave troubles was eerily similar and helped cement attitudes about black Americans as violent and dangerous.After any revolt or conspiracy, African Americans were framed as a threat in newspaper stories. These frames fed into a discourse that spurred racial panics among whites and led to increasingly repressive measures by white authorities to contain the slave populations. As a result, slaves and free blacks would be denied access to literacy or assembly or other civil rights. Slaves were property, period.BG: Ultimately, many of the same attitudes that were expressed in these pre-Civil War newspaper stories have resonance in modern US media. While the words have changed, the underlying message remains. Just look at how African Americans are talked about when it comes to the Black Lives Matters movement. Though the language is less inflammatory than in the 19th century, there is still an underlying frame of Black people as potentially dangerous.

Of course it is not just African Americans who can be framed in this way, Muslim Americans and illegal immigrants are too. So, the language the media chooses does matter as do the words of political and other leaders.
Brian Gabrial’s The Press and Slavery in America, 1791–1859: The Melancholy Effect of Popular Excitement is available from the University of South Carolina Press.          Find out more about Concordia’s Department of Journalism. 
        Life after Gawker
    
        How social media shapes attitudes towards refugees
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia University‘The words have changed, but the underlying message remains’Department of Journalism
            
                Department of Journalism
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsLatest storiesMost popularOPINION: Big Pharma’s troubles are good news for innovationConcordia receives funding for 5 Canada Research ChairsThe fight against fake newsConcordia receives $2 million to advance smart-grid technology‘Student success is more gratifying than any prize’13 essential tips for exam successTo nap or not to nap? Sleep tips for ConcordiansJason Camlot wins the Donald Gray Prize for best Victorian Studies essay‘We are conducting research in a living lab’What's it like to meet  the Oracle of Omaha?What specifically are you examining in your book?
Why is press coverage of slavery important when it comes to understanding this phenomenon?
What does this teach us about the contemporary media landscape when it comes to race?Find an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424