http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/students/financial-support/scholarships-awards/external/nserc-undergraduate-research-award-winter.htmlStudents wishing to enter the Summer 2017 USRA competition should not apply yet. Watch the Financial Aid and Awards Office website for an announcement about the launch of the Summer 2017 competition. However, now is a good time to begin working on your research proposal and seeking a research supervisor so you are ready to go once applications for the Summer 2017 NSERC USRA competition are being accepted.
The Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC) is an arm’s length federal investment agency responsible for promoting and supporting research in the natural sciences and engineering, other than the health sciences.The objective of the Undergraduate Student Research Award (USRA) in universities program is to provide a valuable  research experience for students to complement their degree program and encourage them to consider graduate studies and/or a research career. ValueThe USRA has a basic value of $5,625.00 ($4,500.00 from NSERC plus $1,125.00 from the Office of the Vice President Research and Graduate Studies.)   A supplemental amount of $2,000.00 for approved USRA holders may be possible through the Fonds de recherche du Québec – Nature et technologies (FRQNT). More information is available here. Term Dates: January 9 - April 30, 2016.Winter 2017 Submission Deadline:  October 17 2016 at 5:00 p.m. EligibilityTo be eligible for an award, you must:·         be a Canadian citizen or permanent resident of Canada as of October 17, 2016;·         be registered in any bachelor’s degree;·         have a cumulative GPA of at least 2.70.·         You must have in place a faculty member who will supervise your research.  The faculty member must hold an active NSERC research grant (e.g., Discovery, CREATE, Strategic, Research Partnerships, etc.), either at the time you submit the application or when you hold the award.In addition,·         you may hold only one USRA per fiscal year (May 1, 2016 to April 30, 2017);·         you may hold a maximum of three NSERC USRAs throughout your university career;·         you can take a maximum of 1 course during the USRA period of tenure, if your supervisor approves it!To hold an USRA, you must:·         have completed all of the course requirements of at least the first year of University study towards your Bachelor’s degree (or two academic terms);·         have been registered in the Summer 2016 and/or Fall 2016 terms;·         not have started a program of graduate studies in the natural sciences or engineering at any time.·         You must be engaged in full-time research and development activities in the natural sciences or engineering on university premises during the tenure of the award.Please consult the USRA Program guide for a complete overview of the program:http://www.nserc-crsng.gc.ca/Students-Etudiants/UG-PC/USRA-BRPC_eng.aspSubmission Deadline:  Monday October 17th (5 PM)How to ApplyTo apply for the USRA-In Universities award, you must submit the online NSERC USRA application (Form 202) as well as Concordia’s NSERC USRA Compliance Certification Checklist which must be completed by your research supervisor.   The on-line NSERC USRA application is available through NSERC’s Online Services.http://www.nserc-crsng.gc.ca/OnlineServices-ServicesEnLigne/Index_eng.asp1.      Student Application (Form 202 Part I)a.       Complete all of the modules of your USRA application (Form 202 Part 1).  All CEGEP, College and university-level studies should be recorded with the list of your Post-Secondary education.b.      Once your application is completed you must provide your research supervisor with your Reference Number so that s/he can complete her/his section of the application (Form 202 Part II).  The reference number is provided in the “My Portfolio” tab of your NSERC online file.2.      Supervisor application (Form 202 Part II, NSERC USRA Compliance Certification Checklist).a.       Your supervisor will require your reference number and student name in order to complete and submit Form 202 Part II.  b.      Your supervisor must submit an NSERC USRA Compliance Certification Checklist in addition to Form 202 Part II.   See attached form.After your online application is submittedOnce the application deadline has passed, the Financial Aid and Awards Office will verify that submitted applications are eligible for the program.  Eligible applications will then be forwarded to the Concordia USRA Selection Committee within the appropriate Faculty (ENCS or Arts & Science).  This committee will rank the candidates on the basis of the student’s academic record and research aptitude, and fill inform the Financial Aid and Awards Office of the results. The Financial Aid and Awards Office will then offer USRAs to applicants based on the Faculty's recommendations.
After USRA positions have been offered and accepted by candidates, the Financial Aid and Awards will submit the applications to NSERC for final review and approval. In the event NSERC rejects an application or requires that it be modified, the Financial Aid and Awards Office will contact the student as well as the USRA supervisor.
Award notificationsCandidates will be notified in writing as to whether their application has been selected for an award, placed on a waiting list as an alternative candidate or not accepted (by December 15th, 2016).  The Undergraduate Awards Office will initiate and coordinate the preparation and completion of the USRA payments for the award recipients.Please contact Doug Gardhouse or Shirley Moy of the Financial Aid and Awards Office if you have questions about the NSERC USRA program.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityApplication Deadline:October 17 2016 at 5:00 p.m.Submit Your Research Proposal Now!Student hub
            
                Student hub
            Winter 2017 NSERC Undergraduate Research Award in UniversitiesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424