http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/about/jobs/postdoctoral-fellowships/physical-literacy-injury-prevention.htmlThe Department of Exercise Science are recruiting a Postdoctoral Fellow (PDF) interested in intervention research on human movement function and physical skills. The PDF will work on funded studies examining the impact of physical skill interventions on the development of fundamental and functional movement. The PDF will be based in the Department of Exercise Science at the Loyola campus of Concordia University in Montreal (Quebec) and at the PERFORM Centre.The PDF will be actively involved in intervention studies of children and adolescent aged individuals designed to measure physical capabilities and functional outcomes. This research will occur primarily in sport clubs, after school programs, and laboratory settings. The PDF will be involved with research program design, tool development and validation, and participate in measures of function (paper instrumentation and mechanical; EMG, motions analysis, perturbation). The fellow will be supervised by Richard DeMont, PhD, CAT(C), ATC.Required education/skills:PhD degree (or completion by appointment) in Exercise Science or a related science (e.g., kinesiology, sports medicine), excellent organizational skills, autonomy and ability to work in a team, good writing skills and an established publication record is preferred. Bilingual (English and French) applicants with clinical credentials (CAT(C)/ATC/PT) and experience in one or more aspects of the research themes are preferred.Salary will be determined according to education and past experience. This appointment will be renewable on a yearly basis, contingent on satisfactory performance and funding.You can apply for this position by sending your curriculum vitae, a letter of intent including professional goals to the principal investigator (see contact information below). Request for any additional information should also be directed to him. Review of applications will begin as they are received and will continue until the position has been filled. Start date is flexible, but preferably Fall 2016.
PI:
Richard DeMont, PhD, CAT(C), ATC
Associate ProfessorRichard.DeMont@concordia.ca
(514) 848-2424, ext 3329Department of Exercise Science
Concordia University
7141 rue Sherbrooke Ouest
Montreal, QC
H4B 1R6
Applications will be acknowledged, and candidates selected for interviews will be contacted.

Concordia University hires on the basis of merit and is committed to employment equity. We encourage all qualified applicants to apply. In accordance with Canadian Immigration requirements, priority will be given to Canadian citizens and Permanent Residents.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFaculty of Arts and Science
            
                Faculty of Arts and Science
            Postdoctoral fellow in physical literacy and injury preventionEmployment equityConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424