http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2016/08/01/places-to-start-your-student-job-hunt-csu-hojo-youth-fusion.html
There are career-track positions and there are jobs — you know, work that pays the rent while you pursue your academic passion.Concordia can help you find employment, no matter what your current need.Enter the Concordia Student Union’s HOJO job and housing bank. Plus, there are four other places to seek help with your job hunt: the Career and Planning Services online job bank; work-study programs run by the Financial Aid and Awards Office; the John Molson School of Business Career Management Services; and opportunities with Youth Fusion.Here is an overview of the five main resources for students seeking extra income or a new home.What’s your first port of call for a non-career-related job and an apartment? HOJO, courtesy of the Concordia Student Union. HOJO is two things, mainly: it’s an online resource for housing and for jobs. It has a physical office as well: room H-260 in the Henry F. Hall Building mezzanine. For apartment hunting tips, visit the off-campus portal, linked to HOJO. (Tip: Montreal apartments aren’t sized by the number of bedrooms — for example, a two-bedroom apartment. They’re sized by the total number of rooms, with the bathroom counting as a half room. For example, a “3½” is typically a one-bedroom apartment with a kitchen, bedroom, living room and bathroom — not a three bedroom apartment, as you might assume.)For full access to the job bank, students must register first. You can do this online by uploading proof of your student status, or by visiting the HOJO office with student proof. Graduate students are welcome. Next, browse the classified postings. Anyone can see the job listings, but you won’t be able to access the employer’s contact information if you aren’t registered.Jobs are searchable, categorized as off-campus, on-campus, summer or “other.”“Most of the work is entry-level, part-time and summer jobs,” says Leanne Ashworth, the HOJO coordinator. “We pre-vet all the jobs. It’s not the Wild West. We make sure students aren’t being taken advantage of by telling them about things like minimum wage and employment regulations.”TIP: Don’t forget about internal CSU student job postings on the CSU home page.If you are a university student interested in becoming a role model for young students and playing an active role in fighting dropout rates, then a job with Youth Fusion could be a good fit.Get involved by becoming a project coordinator and organizing and supervising projects related to your field of study — from opera and robotics to cinema and environmental design.“We’re looking for someone who wants to be a role model for at-risk youth,” says Sarah Houde, director of Youth Fusion.“We have part-time student positions in the Montreal region that pay $14.50 for 10 to 15 hours per week,” says Houde, who provides successful job applicants with two days of training in early September. “We match students and jobs by their domain of study and geographic region.”Project coordinators work with elementary or secondary school students from disadvantaged areas, for the purpose of promoting youth engagement at the personal, academic and community level. Graduate students with the freedom to travel may also consider full-time positions — 30 hours per week — available in northern Inuit and First Nations communities.“Plus, we holding a contest again this fall. If you apply for a job at YF this spring or share the job offers on Facebook, you might be the lucky student who get this semester’s textbooks reimbursed by Youth Fusion!” says Houde. Check out Youth Fusion’s website for more details.TIP: Students who’ve previously worked with children have an advantage.It’s never too early to approach CAPS, Concordia’s Career and Planning Services, a part of the Student Success Centre. As its name implies, CAPS focuses on career counselling and advising.“We’re like travel agents for your career,” says Robert Taliano, manager at CAPS. “If you want to go to Rome, we show you how to get there. That’s advising. If you don’t know where you want to go yet, we help you figure that out first. That’s counselling. We want students to see us as soon as they can, in first year, to find out about paid internships, career workshops, interview coaching, company information sessions and all the things we do.”CAPS has many tools to help you find career-related work, including the CAPS online job bank. It’s accessed through your MyConcordia portal, under “Student Services,” after which you select “Counselling and Development.”“You can target your job search by many things — your degree, faculty of study, paid internship, summer job or permanent position. You can also upload your resume. CAPS advisors can generate a list of companies who’ve posted jobs for Concordia students with your academic degree,” says Taliano.TIP: Students have access to the CAPS online job bank for a year beyond graduation.The work-study program helps fund part-time jobs on campus for students who are in financial need.“This is a great program for eligible students to gain work experience, often in an area related to their field of study,” says Maria Safos, manager of Client Services in the Financial Aid and Awards Office. “There are some eligibility requirements: students must have applied for government student aid or be an international student experiencing an unforeseen financial difficulty. They must be full-time students registered in a degree program and have a GPA of 2.0 or higher.”Jobs are posted online by various departments inside Concordia — the Department of Recreation and Athletics, for example, or the Milieux Institute for Arts, Culture and Technology. “This program really helps students with their budget and financial plan, while still allowing them to focus on their studies,” says Safos. To find out more about the program and available positions, visit the About Work Study web page.TIP: Apply early and be mindful of the deadlines. Check the website, under notices, for deadlines.
  
Membership has its privileges.John Molson School of Business runs a private Career Management Services (CMS), funded by JMSB student fees. The CMS provides specialized services for students, as well as a student career portal, called ConneXions.For access to ConneXions, JMSB students are required to enter their Concordia net name and password (same as the ones to access the MyConcordia portal). “We list part-time jobs, but they’re not babysitting and bartending,” says Mai-Gee Hum, director of CMS. “We specialize in career jobs, including part-time and short-term roles, summer positions and summer internships.”Students can search the ConneXions job database by geographic region, academic discipline, paid internship, short-term positions, permanent position or part-time work. Then, you can upload your resume, cover letter and transcript.“Typical jobs include financial analyst, marketing coordinator, human resources assistant and supply chain analyst roles,” says Hum. “Those are great ways to get your feet wet!”TIP: For a full year after graduation, JMSB students can get 60-minute sessions of one-on-one career advising. Additionally, students’ access to ConneXions never terminates. NOTE FOR GRADUATE STUDENTS: You are welcome to take advantage of all job-seeking resources on campus, but don’t forget the professional development workshops offered through GradProSkills. Contact them at gradproskills@concordia.ca. 
        8 awesome Concordia student services
    
        What (exactly) Discover Concordia and Start Right can do for you
    
        5 reasons to attend Winter Orientation 2017
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia University5 great places to start your student job hunt at ConcordiaNews
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsLatest storiesMost popularOPINION: Big Pharma’s troubles are good news for innovationConcordia receives funding for 5 Canada Research ChairsThe fight against fake newsConcordia receives $2 million to advance smart-grid technology‘Student success is more gratifying than any prize’13 essential tips for exam successTo nap or not to nap? Sleep tips for ConcordiansJason Camlot wins the Donald Gray Prize for best Victorian Studies essay‘We are conducting research in a living lab’What's it like to meet  the Oracle of Omaha?Have you heard about HOJO?
Join Youth Fusion! Enter the contest!
Get to know CAPS
Why not apply to the work-study program?Contact the Career Management Services (CMS) at JMSBFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424