http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/english/programs/undergraduate/creative-writing/creative-writing-ba/portfolio-letter-intent.htmlAdmissions requirements specific to submitting your portfolio and letter of intent for programs or courses in Creative Writing.  Students applying for a program in Creative Writing (Major, Minor, Honours in English and Creative Writing) must submit the following:Students who are not in a Creative Writing program but who wish to apply for admission to a single Creative Writing course must submit the following:This is the format for all portfolios:You can download a formatted template for the letter of intent here.  Important information for all applicants:Note: Only one portfolio per academic session will be considered. If your portfolio is not approved, you may submit for any subsequent academic session, with a new portfolio and letter of intent.All students: please note that student demand regularly outpaces our enrolment capacity.  Early application is advisable in all cases. 
Where to mail or to hand-deliver your portfolio and letter of intent:Mail to:  Coordinator of Creative Writing      
c/o Angela Alleyne       
Department of English       
Concordia University        
1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. West    
Room LB-641          
Montreal, QC         
H3G 1M8      Deliver to:  Coordinator of Creative Writing      
c/o Angela Alleyne       
Department of English       
Concordia University        
1400 de Maisonneuve Blvd. West    
Room LB-641          
Montreal, QC         

Additional information:
Ms. Angela Alleyne, 514‐ 848‐2424 Ext. 2343 or angela.alleyne@concordia.caUndergraduate University Application deadline for September: March 1st

Both your portfolio and letter of intent must be sent directly to “Coordinator of Creative Writing” in the Department of English. Portfolios will be received as early as January, but no later than March 1st.  All NEW students must also complete a university application.

 Undergraduate University Application deadline for January: November 1st

Both your portfolio and letter of intent must be sent directly to “Coordinator of Creative Writing” in the Department of English. Portfolios will be received as early as September, but no later than November
1st.  All NEW students must also complete a university application.If you are already a Concordia student in a B.A. program and wish to change your concentration to creative writing:If you are already a Concordia student but in another Faculty or degree (e.g. BSc) program, you must:If you are an undergraduate student from another university interested in taking creative writing courses at Concordia, you must first have written permission from your home university and be officially registered as a visiting student at Concordia. Refer to this link for visiting students for more information. 

Both your portfolio and letter of intent must be sent directly to “Coordinator of Creative Writing” in the Department of English, by March 1st for September admission; or by November 1st for January admission. Keep a copy of your work. Portfolios will not be returned.If you are an undergraduate Independent student interested in taking creative writing courses at Concordia, you must first be officially registered as an Independent student at Concordia.  Refer to this link for Independent students for more information.

Both your portfolio and letter of intent must be sent directly to “Coordinator of Creative Writing” in the Department of English, by March 1st for September admission; or by November 1st for January admission. Keep a copy of your work. Portfolios will not be returned.Students who have no portfolio may wish to enroll in ENGL 224 (The Creative Process) – which has no pre-requisite for admission – to prepare themselves for later application for a degree program or for a single course in creative writing.

Note: Successful completion of ENGL 224 does not guarantee acceptance into any creative writing program or creative writing course.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityPortfolio & letter of intentDepartment of English
            
                Department of English
            Formats & templatesUndergraduate dates & deadlinesPortfolio format
                
            
                
					
                    Letter of intent: download the template
                
            
                
					
                    Important information
                
            
                
					
                    Where to deliver your application
                
            
                
					
                    New Students (External Students)
                
            
                
					
                    Undergraduate Students already at Concordia (Internal Students)
                
            
                
					
                    Non-Concordia Undergraduate University Students 
                
            
                
					
                    Undergraduate Independent Students
                
            
                
					
                    Students with no portfoliosApplying to the Creative Writing Program:Applying to a single course in creative writingConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424