http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/francais/vie-etudiante/oui-can-help/practice.htmlOffered through the French Studies Department, these weekly sessions offers beginner to novice level speakers the opportunity to practice their French-language skills in a group setting facilitated by a French speaking professional. Conversations will explore French topics of interest to undergraduate and graduate Concordia students in Montreal.Due to limited seating, priority will be given to students registered in a FRAN credit course through the Department of French Studies. To register, please send an email to ouicanhelp@concordia.ca.
Jazz-ons: French chat sessions in H-662 from 3-4pm, Mondays through Thursdays.If you know enough French to participate in a conversation, come and develop your French speaking skills with a group of other students.For more information, click on the following link:https://www.concordia.ca/students/success/learning-support/conversation-groups.html  Students are invited to drop by the French Studies Department and receive advise and help with regards to their French-language skills. These sessions are led by a French speaking tutor.WHAT: Le Service de tutoratWHEN: Monday to Friday. Date and times have yet to be confirmed. WHERE: Offered on the Sir George Williams Campus in the Library Building, Room LB-628.Please note that le service de tutorat is offered only for students registered in any French courses.For information and other resources visit the Département d'études françaises.WHAT: Volunteering is a great way to practice French!WHY: Giving of your time to help a local community organization has many rewards. It is a great way to meet new people, gain experience and of course, practice your language skills!WHERE: The LIVE Centre is a service which helps Concordia students connect with volunteer opportunities.WHEN: Drop in at the Volunteer Resource Centre at SGW H-608-1 during our office hours . A Volunteer Ambassador will be there to discuss opportunities that will help you meet your goals. Be sure to tell them you are interested in practicing French so they can point you to appropriate resources. They will also be able to explain how the process works and answer your questions.Can’t visit the Centre in person? No problem. You can find more information by visiting the LIVE Centre online or contacting the LIVE Centre Coordinator by email. © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityPracticeDépartement d'études françaises
            
                Département d'études françaises
            Join the ConversationFree French conversation groups
Jazz-onsLe service de tutorat: One on one with a tutor to help you with all aspects of the French language.Practicing your French: by volunteeringConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424