http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/journalism/student-life/scholarships-awards.htmlStart here to find the diverse variety of scholarships and awards that support undergraduate journalism students at Concordia.The Bell Media Scholarship in Journalism was created in 2014 through the generosity of the donor, as part of the company’s tangible benefits commitment in the context of BCE’s acquisition of Astral Media in 2013. . The scholarship is intended to benefit Canada’s radio broadcasting sector by directly supporting Journalism students at Concordia University.The scholarship is granted through competition on the basis of academic merit among students pursuing a Bachelor of Arts with a Major or higher in Journalism. Candidates must have successfully completed courses in radio journalism at Concordia University, such as Radio Newsroom (Jour 330). The scholarship is non-renewable.Details:Application required: NoCitizenship: Open to Canadian Citizens, Permanent Residents                                                    Open to part time students: No Faculty: Arts and Science Department/Concentration: Journalism  Established in 2000 through the generosity of his friends and colleagues, this scholarship is awarded on the recommendation of the Journalism Department on the basis of material from the student's application for admission to the department: transcript of grades, letter of intent, and English proficiency scores. This entrance scholarship is open to deserving undergraduate full-time students entering their first year of studies in the department of Journalism.  Details:Application required: NoCitizenship:  Open to Canadian Citizens and Permanent Residents onlyOpen to part time students:  NoFaculty:  Arts and Science Department/Concentration:  JournalismThis merit-based award is part of the Undergraduate Entrance Scholarships Program.Candidates are recommended to the Undergraduate Scholarships and Awards Committee in the Fall term each year by the Department of Journalism. This annual scholarship is awarded to an undergraduate student on the basis of “scholarship, integrity and dedication to the profession of journalism.” In case of a tie, judges will consider financial need.Eligibility:  All full-time students in the journalism major or specialization programs are eligible, provided they have completed one year of journalism studies at Concordia.  Applicants must be Canadians or permanent residents.To Apply:  Submit to Joyce Stempkowsky, Receptionist for the Department of Journalism, CJ.3.230.  Each applicant must submit three copies of:-        a letter of application addressed to the Selection Committee-        an up-to-date transcript-        two samples of journalism work either published, broadcast or submitted as a class assignment. Please note that we do not accept applications by email or fax.Deadline:  noon, Friday, October 16, 2015 This award was established in 1981 by family and friends to honour the memory of the late Cynthia Gunn, a reporter with The Montreal Star and The Gazette. Applicants are judged on the basis of marks, published work (if any), and written work produced for journalism workshops. Eligibility:  Open to all journalism students enrolled in second or third year of the journalism program. Applicants must be Canadians or permanent residents.To Apply:  Submit to Joyce Stempkowsky, Receptionist for the Department of Journalism, CJ.3.230.  Each applicant must submit three copies of:-        a letter of application addressed to the Selection Committee-        an up-to-date transcript and two samples of journalism work either published, broadcast or submitted as a class assignment. Please note that we do not accept applications by email or fax.Deadline:  noon, Friday, October 16, 2015 The Don McGillivray Prize in Explanatory Journalism is intended to encourage the art of explanatory journalism, that is, a story, column or editorial that explains to the reader a complicated matter in easy-to-understand terms.  Don McGillivray (1927-2003) was a reporter, editor and columnist for over 40 years, as well as a professor of journalism at Concordia and Carleton universities. His enduring contribution to coverage of public affairs was as a political and economic columnist in Ottawa. As noted in his obituary in The Gazette: “…he brought the common sense of his Prairie dust bowl roots to the business and editorial pages. The economics of running this country weren't a mystery to him and he considered his job was to make sure his readers understood them, too...”  Eligibility:  Open to all journalism program students, full-time and part-timeTo Apply:  Submit to Joyce Stempkowsky, Receptionist for the Department of Journalism, CJ.3.230.  Each applicant must submit three copies of:one example of explanatory journalism -- a story, column or editorial that explains to readers some complicated and newsworthy matter in easy-to-understand terms. Writing examples can be in any field, including, but not limited to:  government law or policy, scientific achievement, economic or financial matters, health or medical treatment or discovery or any topic of general or public interest. Eligible pieces of writing include class assignments and student or community publications. Submissions that were produced during a paid employment period or summer internship are eligible but must be clearly identified as such and will be treated as examples of professional work by the selection committee.Please note that we do not accept applications by email or fax.Deadline:  noon, Friday, October 16, 2015 This award was established in 1995 to honour the memory of the late Frank Walker (1916-1985), Editor-in-Chief of The Montréal Star from 1968 to the newspaper's closure in 1979. Two awards are made available to deserving students in the Department of Journalism annually, to recognize and reward excellence in writing - one award is provided to a student now in their second year, and the other is provided to a student now in their third year.  Details:Application required: No Citizenship: Open to Canadian Citizens and Permanent Residents only Open to part time students: No Faculty: Arts and Science Department/Concentration: Journalism  This merit-based award is part of the Undergraduate In-Course Scholarships & Awards Program. Candidates are recommended to the Undergraduate Scholarships and Awards Committee in the Fall term each year by the Department of Journalism. The Hugh Haugland Memorial Bursary was established in 2009, and is intended to encourage and reward full-time Undergraduate students currently enrolled in the Bachelor of Arts program at Concordia University, with a Major or Specialization in Journalism.  Hugh Haugland lived his life with energy, enthusiasm, and a lightness of being that enriched the lives of everyone who knew him. His colleagues remember him as a tireless and committed worker whose compassion and kindness were reflected through his camera lens.  Preferred candidates for the Hugh Haugland Memorial Bursary will have completed JOUR 466 (Photojournalism). This bursary is renewable on the basis of acceptable academic standing and continuing full-time enrollment in the required area of study.  Details:Application required: Yes - The 2014-2015 application is now available through the MyConcordia Portal.Citizenship: Open to Canadian Citizens, Permanent Residents, and International Students Open to part time students: No Faculty: Arts and Science Department/Concentration: Journalism  This financial need-based bursary is part of the Undergraduate In-Course Bursary Program. Recipients are selected late in the Fall term every year by the In-Course Bursary Selection Committee. The 2014-2015 application is now available through the MyConcordia Portal.Please note that we do not accept applications by email or fax.Deadline:  Friday, October 16, 2015 at midnight This award was established in 2005 in memory of John W. Sancton (1920-2004), who was a prominent figure in community newspapers in Quebec and in Canada. Mr. Sancton worked as a city editor at The Gazette and was the editor and publisher of The Westmount Examiner for over 30 years. He also served as president of the Canadian Weekly Newspapers Association and was a founding member of the Association of Quebec Regional English Media.Eligibility:  Open to full-time undergraduate students in the print journalism major, but preference is given to students who have published in community newspapers (including university newspapers).  Applicants must be Canadians or permanent residents.To Apply:  Submit to Joyce Stempkowsky, Receptionist for the Department of Journalism, CJ.3.230.  Each applicant must submit three copies of:-                 a letter of application addressed to the Selection Committee-                 an up-to-date transcript-                 three samples of published work.Please note that we do not accept applications by email or fax.Deadline:  noon, Friday, October 16, 2015 This scholarship was established in 2007 in memory of Mr. Leo Rice-Barker, a former student at Sir George Williams University, who passed away in 2006. Leo Rice-Barker was a well-known and respected film and television trade journalist. He was an industry leader with unmatched insight and understanding of the film and television business in both Canada and Québec. He was a contributor, staff writer, and bureau chief with Playback Magazine for more than 19 years. While reporting in English, he gave equal voice to both English and French productions. The purpose of the Leo Rice-Barker Scholarship is to recognize and reward excellent students who have been accepted into the Bachelor's / Baccalaureate of Arts program in Journalism. Candidates must be full-time students. This scholarship is non-renewable.  Details:Application required: No Citizenship: Open to Canadian Citizens and Permanent Residents only Open to part time students: No Faculty: Arts and Science Department/Concentration: Journalism  This merit-based award is part of the Undergraduate Entrance Scholarships Program. Candidates are recommended to the Undergraduate Scholarships and Awards Committee in the Fall term each year by the Department of Journalism. This annual award is given in memory of Lewis Harris, a long-time professor of JOUR 302 (Reporting Methods) and a reporter and copy editor at The Gazette.  Eligibility:  Open to all full-time students who have completed JOUR 302 and who are currently enrolled in journalism.  Academic achievement and writing excellence are the criteria used in judging this award.To Apply:  Submit to Joyce Stempkowsky, Receptionist for the Department of Journalism, CJ.3.230.  Each applicant must submit three copies of:-      a brief letter of application addressed to the Selection Committee, outlining your           journalistic achievements,-      an up-to-date transcript-      one sample of published or classroom work. -      Applicants must be Canadians or permanent residents.Please note that we do not accept applications by email or fax.Deadline:  noon, Friday, October 16, 2015This award was established by students, colleagues and friends in honour of Professor Lindsay Crysler, longtime teacher and Director of the Department of Journalism, on the occasion of his retirement. This award is available to all students entering the first-year of undergraduate studies within the Department of Journalism.Selection will be made by a Committee of the Department, which will take into consideration the following material extracted from the student's application for admission: 1. Transcript of marks; 2. The “letter of intent”; 3. The English proficiency scores. Details:Application required: No Citizenship: Open to Canadian Citizens and Permanent Residents only Open to part time students: No Faculty: Arts and Science Department/Concentration: Journalism  This merit-based award is part of the Undergraduate Entrance Scholarships Program. Candidates are recommended to the Undergraduate Scholarships and Awards Committee in the Fall term each year by the Department of Journalism. This award was established in 2002, in memory of Lorne and Ann Tierney. Its purpose is to encourage and reward excellent, newly admitted undergraduate students who are entering Concordia University's journalism program. The Lorne and Ann Tierney Memorial Award in Journalism commemorates their belief that those who had, at one time, been involved in sports (through participation or coaching) would be the best communicators of the ideals developed and portrayed in sports. It recognizes the dilemma of being involved in organized sports while trying to deal with scholastic demands. It is meant to help those who wish to continue with sports activities while studying. Eligibility:  Open to all newly admitted (Fall 2015) journalism students.  Applicants must meet as many of the following criteria as possible:  acceptance to a Concordia University varsity-level team, past or present involvement in sports either as an athlete or as a coach and a demonstrable interest in sports journalism or sports broadcasting.  Open to Canadian students, permanent residents and international students.To Apply:  Submit to Joyce Stempkowsky, Receptionist for the Department of Journalism, CJ.3.230.  Each applicant must submit three copies of:- a brief letter of application addressed to the Selection Committee, which addresses the eligibility criteria- two letters of reference which outline the candidate’s current or past involvement in sports as an athlete or as a coachPlease note that we do not accept applications by email or fax.Deadline:  noon, Friday, October 16, 2015 Created in 2010 in memory of Mike King by friends, family and colleagues, the purpose of this endowment is to provide an In-Course Scholarship to deserving undergraduate students in the Department of Journalism.  Mike King was a well-loved reporter who died June 13, 2010. He worked for The Montreal Gazette for 22 years, covering city, business and general assignment stories. He died at age 51 of a brain aneurysm. Being a journalist was never a job for Mike. For someone who instinctively liked and took an interest in people, it was his ideal occupation.  Preference given to a student who shows a committed preference for print or internet focused journalism. Recipients must have completed at least 24 credits in Journalism. The Mike King Memorial Scholarship is not renewable however recipients may be considered again in subsequent years.  Details:Application required: No Citizenship: Open to Canadian Citizens and Permanent Residents only Open to part time students: No Faculty: Arts and Science Department/Concentration: Journalism  This merit-based award is part of the Undergraduate In-Course Scholarships & Awards Program. Candidates are recommended to the Undergraduate Scholarships and Awards Committee in the Fall term each year by the Department of Journalism. The MIX 96 - Nick Auf der Maur Memorial Scholarship was established in 1989 by the Mix 96 radio station to honour the late Nick Auf der Maur, and to promote and encourage Undergraduate studies in the fields of Communication Studies and Journalism. It is awarded to second-year students in Journalism or Communication Studies (in alternating years), who demonstrate academic excellence and an interest in radio broadcasting through courses completed in their programs.  Details:Application required: No Citizenship: Open to Canadian Citizens and Permanent Residents only Open to part time students: No Faculty: Arts and Science Department/Concentration: Communication Studies, Journalism  This merit-based award is part of the Undergraduate In-Course Scholarships & Awards Program. No application is required - candidates are recommended to the Undergraduate Scholarships and Awards Committee by the Department of Communication Studies or the Department of Journalism every year. Established in 1999, this award is available to deserving undergraduate students in the Department of Journalism, or the Department of Communication Studies.  Eligibility:  This is open to students majoring in either Journalism, or Communication Studies, who have completed a minimum of twelve (12) credits towards their major.To Apply:  Submit to Joyce Stempkowsky, Receptionist for the Department of Journalism, CJ.3.230.  Each applicant must submit three copies of:-        Applicants must provide a written statement indicating their special areas of interest, concerns, and personal motivation in the field of Journalism or Communications.  Please note that we do not accept applications by email or fax.Deadline:  noon, Friday, October 16, 2015 This scholarship was established in 2000 through the generosity of Reader's Digest. This scholarship is awarded on the recommendation of the Journalism Department and the Undergraduate Scholarship and Awards Committee, on the basis of portfolio submission and academic ranking as assigned by the University in the course of admission file processing.  Details:Application required: No Citizenship: Open to Canadian Citizens and Permanent Residents only Open to part time students: No Faculty: Arts and Science Department/Concentration: Journalism  This merit-based award is part of the Undergraduate In-Course Scholarships & Awards Program. Candidates are recommended to the Undergraduate Scholarships and Awards Committee in the Fall term each year by the Department of Journalism. This Scholarship is named in memory of the former faculty member of the University, Ross Perigoe, who passed away on January 4th, 2012. Ross Perigoe was a fellow of the Loyola International College and a long-serving member of the Department of Journalism, having started teaching at the University in 1985. During his quarter-century at Concordia, he taught hundreds of broadcast students, many of whom are now working in newsrooms across Canada.  The purpose of this annual in-course Scholarship is to support and encourage students in Journalism who demonstrate academic scholarship, integrity and a commitment to truth in journalism. Candidates must be pursuing a Bachelor of Arts in Journalism, and who have chosen any of the audiovisual track options offered by the Department of Journalism, and have a minimum of 30 credits in Journalism courses at Concordia University.  Details:Application required: No Citizenship: Open to Canadian Citizens, Permanent Residents and International Students Open to part time students: Yes Faculty: Arts and Science Department/Concentration: Journalism  This merit-based award is part of the Undergraduate In-Course Scholarships & Awards Program. Candidates are recommended to the Undergraduate Scholarships and Awards Committee in the Fall term each year by the Department of Journalism. This scholarship was established in 2000 through the generosity of Reader's Digest. This scholarship is awarded on the recommendation of the Journalism Department and the Undergraduate Scholarship and Awards Committee, on the basis of portfolio submission and academic ranking as assigned by the University in the course of admission file processing.


Application required: No
Citizenship: Open to Canadian Citizens and Permanent Residents only
Open to part time students: No
Faculty: Arts and Science
Department/Concentration: Journalism

This merit-based award is part of the Undergraduate In-Course Scholarships & Awards Program. Candidates are recommended to the Undergraduate Scholarships and Awards Committee in the Fall term each year by the Department of Journalism.
© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityScholarships and awardsDepartment of Journalism
            
                Department of JournalismBell Media Scholarship and Journalism Bob McDevitt AwardCanadian Women’s Press Club (Montreal Branch) ScholarshipCynthia Gunn Journalism AwardDon McGillivray Memorial Prize in Explanatory JournalismFrank B. Walker Journalism AwardsHugh Haugland Memorial BursaryJohn W. Sancton Memorial AwardLeo Rice-Barker Memorial Scholarship in JournalismLewis Harris Memorial Award Lindsay Crysler AwardLorne and Ann Tierney Memorial Award in JournalismMike King Memorial ScholarshipMIX 96 - Nick Auf der Maur Memorial ScholarshipNick Auf der Maur AwardReader's Digest Scholarship in JournalismRoss Perigoe Memorial ScholarshipReader's Digest Scholarship in JournalismConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424