http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/mba/beyond-the-classroom/speaker-series.htmlThe John Molson Graduate Student Association (JMGSA) Speaker Series is a student-run initiative that organizes speaker events for students. Speaker Series events are open to all JMSB graduate students. The purpose of the Speaker Series is to inspire and motivate students by providing an opportunity to interact with prominent Canadian and international business leaders in a unique and intimate setting. These events expose students to local and international business environments and can help form decisions regarding future career paths and direction.  Students will have the opportunity to realize what it takes to make an organization work and how classroom theory is put into practice by industry leaders. Inspiration, evolution and preparation are the underlining objectives that drive the JMGSA Speaker Series towards providing students with an impactful and rewarding experience.The JMGSA is managed by an engaged and diverse team of four graduate students from the John Molson School of Business.Julia brings her extensive experience in project management, public speaking and events to the JMGSA Speakers Series. Julia is a former performance ski coach and recognizes the impact positive contribution can have on a team. It is for this reason that she is eager to lead a strong JMGSA Speakers Series Executive and make a significant impact on peers’ JMSB experience. Julia began the MBA program in January 2015 and intends to graduate in 2016.Yoana was born in Sofia, Bulgaria and moved to New York State where she completed her undergraduate degree in communications. Yoana is a meticulous planner full of positive energy and wisdom acquired through planning and executing numerous public events for non-profit organizations in all three countries. She looks forward to a great year full of dynamic speakers who will inspire and challenge all of us.     Eamon has over ten years of team management, sales, and successful business ownership experience in a period plagued by economic drought. This experience, combined with a relentless work ethic and optimistic, outgoing persona has allowed Eamon to hone his skills in being an effective leader, innovator, and communicator. These skills produce an unrivaled edge in marketing. Eamon’s background includes a BA in political science, Spanish, and international business. He started the MBA program at JMSB in the winter of 2015, and looks forward to contributing to student life at the university with the Speakers Series team.Yao is a student in the MSc program. She has worked for the GradProSkills Team, the Student Recruitment Office and the MSc Society. Her fields of expertise include finance analysis, corporate finance, risk management and crowd funding. Yao is currently doing research for her thesis and pursing the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) charter and Financial Risk Manager (FRM) designation. Excited by the opportunity to make positive contributions to student life at JMSB, she enthusiastically joined the JMGSA Speaker Series team. She started the MSc program at JMSB in September of 2014 and expects to graduate in summer 2016. jmgsa.speaker.series@gmail.com© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityJMGSA Speaker SeriesJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            Meet the 2015-2016 teamJoin the conversationContactConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424President - Julia WoolseyVice President of Events - Yoana TurninVice President of Marketing - Eamon KhalajVice President of Finance - Yao Dinghttp://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/about/strategic-directions/archives/speaker-series.htmlThe university invited a diverse group of thought-leaders from Canada and the U.S. as part of a speaker series, The Future of the University and the Future of Learning. Their insights and know-helped to inform the nine directions that were developed.Michael Crow, president of Arizona State University since July 1, 2002, gave a presentation on how to design the university that we want and need.Ted Hewitt, president of the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada (SSHRC), and Rémi Quirion, Quebec Chief Scientist, addressed the ways university-based research would be transformed in the next decade.Taiaiake Alfred, Full Professor, Indigenous Governance and Political Science, University of Victoria and Kahnawake Mohawk Author and Educator, talked about ways for universities to support Indigenous resurgence.Duane Elverum and Janet Moore, co-founders and co-directors of CityStudio, Vancouver, described how community-university partnerships can re-invent the city and the classroom.Alain Beaudet and B. Mario Pinto discussed how university-based research would be transformed in the next decade.Drawing from his role as CEO of Communitech, Ian Klugman explained how universities can foster startups that help solve global challenges.Debra Stewart offered perspective and insight to the discussion of how to create compelling and distinctive opportunities for graduate study.Amy Collier explained that universities have an important role to play in helping learners make meaningful connections—between courses, with other students, and to the world outside the classroom. James Neal has identified four fundamental shifts in library collection development, which resonate well beyond library collections: primal innovation, deconstruction, radical collaboration, and survival.For more than three decades, David Orr has been a leading voice in the environmental movement, eloquently championing ecological literacy and sustainable design. In his presentation, Orr addressed the challenges that students graduating from university will face in a world affected by climate change and environmental degradation.The J.W. McConnell Family Foundation funds and catalyzes work aimed at creating a more just, sustainable, and beautiful world, and it sees universities as key partners. Huddart says where you see cities thriving, it is more than likely that universities are playing an active role in making this happen. Elizabeth Cannon has been president of the University of Calgary since July 2010. Under her leadership, the university has set the goal of moving up the ranks of Canada’s top research universities by 2016. They’re succeeding, and there are some good reasons why. During her visit to Concordia, Cannon shared some (though not maybe all) of know-how behind Calgary’s ambitious ascent.In their work at the Conference Board of Canada, Amrhein and MacKay help academic leaders “rethink universities” with a particular focus on student interests and pathways. Around the world, postsecondary institutions are dramatically reforming how they prepare students for work, leverage digital learning technologies, and integrate with their communities. Canadian universities should take note.In Bass’s view, our understanding of learning has far outpaced our practices of teaching, which compels universities to confront their standard ways of organizing students’ educational experiences. Bass is currently leading a visioning process at Georgetown University focused on how to design a whole-person education for the digital age. From his perspective as former university president and former leader of the U.S.’s preeminent advocacy organization for higher education, David Ward sees a global anxiety about universities. Historical models focused on broad access, low cost, and uniform experience are being tested, and innovations in design and delivery of student learning experiences are proliferating. The key question, Ward asserts, is how we do provide a 21st-century university education given today’s tools and capabilities, and given the different needs and expectations of students?© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversitySpeaker seriesStrategic directions
            
                Strategic directions
            Michael CrowTed Hewitt and Rémi QuirionTaiaiake AlfredDuane Elverum and Janet MooreAlain Beaudet and B. Mario PintoIain KlugmanDebra StewartAmy CollierJames NealDavid OrrStephen HuddartElizabeth CannonCarl Amrhein and Diana MackayRandy BassDavid WardHow do we design the university that we want and need?How will university-based research be transformed in the next decade?What can universities do to support indigenous resurgence?How can community-university partnerships reinvent the city and the classroom?How will university-based research be transformed in the next decade?How can universities foster start-ups that help solve global challenges?What's a future-ready model of graduate education?How can universities build learning environments that are both digital and connected?What fundamental shifts do next-generation libraries (and universities) need to make?How should universities prepare students for the (hotter) world?How can universities help build thriving, innovative cities?How can universities go from good to great?What will future students want and need from the universities?What is next-generation learning?Why should universities innovate?Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424April 28, 2015April 27, 2015April 22, 2015April 16, 2015April 14, 2015April 10, 2015April 8, 2015April 2, 2015April 1, 2015March 26, 2015March 23, 2015March 10, 2015March 4, 2015February 5, 2015January 28, 2015