http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2016/08/01/student-services-you-should-know-about-success-mentors.html
While you might be acquainted with Concordia’s more mainstream student services, such as the university’s team of physicians and nurses at Health Services, chances are you’ve yet to explore some of the other awesome resources on campus. Here’s a primer:Spring break usually brings to mind images of young people soaking up the rays at southern seaside party places. Concordia’s Alternative Spring Break (ASB) program offers something a little different — a chance for students and recent grads, as well as staff and faculty, to foster civic responsibility through community service, whether in their own backyard or abroad.ASB is a transformative weeklong service-learning experience that involves hands-on volunteering with community partners across North America. From working alongside Share the Warmth and Santropol Roulant in Montreal, to building houses with the St. Bernard Project in New Orleans (reserved for second-time ASB participants), make your next reading week count with the ASB program.  Apply today!If you’re an active member within the university community, your Co-curricular record (CCR) is an important ally. The CCR is an official university document that highlights involvement in student life at Concordia. From student leadership roles to positions within departmental services, it showcases acquired skills that can help you get into graduate school, impress prospective employers, and receive grants and bursaries.Moreover, your CCR is easy to access and use. All you need to do is log on to your MyConcordia portal, where you’ll find the co-curricular record link in the left-hand menu. From there you can add activities to your record and download it as a PDF to include with your CV and official transcript.Did you know that Mother Hubbard’s Cupboard offers vegan dinners once a week throughout the academic year for only $2? Or that there’s a lounge/kitchen space on campus that offers free tea and coffee daily, and a meditation room where you can find some peace and quiet (and possibly a nap) amidst the hustle and bustle of the school cycle?These are all services offered by the Multi-Faith & Spirituality Centre at Concordia.And if you ever need a listening ear, staff members are on hand to provide confidential one-on-one counselling services regardless of your faith or background.P.S. If you’re downtown during the summer, swing by the Multi-faith & Spirituality Centre any Thursday between 12:30 p.m. and 1:30 p.m. from June 9 until August 25 for free iced tea, coffee and conversation!Loyola Campus’s Athletic Complex provides set “open times” each week when students and staff are given exclusive access to all facilities, including its arena, gymnasium and the Stinger Dome.You can use these spaces to do whatever activities your heart desires… for free! Whether you're up for some pick-up hockey or want to access workout equipment, “open times” are a great opportunity to get in shape, have fun and spare your wallet.All you need to take advantage of this offer is a valid Concordia ID. Check the calendar for “Open Times”!Have a great idea but don’t know how to put it on paper? Struggling with writer’s block? How do you cite a source again?  Don’t fret; the good men and women of the Writing Assistance Program are here to help you improve your writing skills in English or French.The free service offers all students at the university the chance to work alongside a writing assistant, who can help you to clarify, develop and present your ideas in a written format that meets the requirements of your specific assignment.Book an appointment today through your MyConcordia Portal or swing by during drop-in times.If you’ve just arrived at Concordia and are feeling a little overwhelmed, it could be advantageous to get a mentor.Concordia’s Student Success Centre connects new students with successful, upper-year, university students in the same faculty. These student success mentors offer you invaluable help with adjusting to university life, while providing honest insight gleaned from their own challenges and achievements.Your mentor is your go-to person when you have a question. They’ll keep you up to date on networking events, campus activities, job opportunities and workshops related to your field of study. Request a mentor now.If you're an international student who's decided to make Montreal your new home, and Concordia your place of study, you're not alone. The International Students Office is behind you every step of the way.From help with visas and health insurance to walking tours of Montreal and tips for getting through our harsh winters, the ISO offers an array of support services designed to help you get settled.Finally, as a Concordian, you have numerous opportunities to get involved as a volunteer, either on campus, off campus or abroad.Drop by the LIVE Volunteer Resource Centre to meet with a volunteer ambassador and find an experience that is right for you!
Find out more about services available to you at Concordia via the Student Hub. 
        5 awesome health services you should know about
    
        ‘Inclusion is that sense you belong’
    
        Mental health: a Concordia guide
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia University8 awesome Concordia student servicesNews
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsLatest storiesMost popularOPINION: Big Pharma’s troubles are good news for innovationConcordia receives funding for 5 Canada Research ChairsThe fight against fake newsConcordia receives $2 million to advance smart-grid technology‘Student success is more gratifying than any prize’13 essential tips for exam successTo nap or not to nap? Sleep tips for ConcordiansJason Camlot wins the Donald Gray Prize for best Victorian Studies essay‘We are conducting research in a living lab’What's it like to meet  the Oracle of Omaha?1.  Get involved with the Alternative Spring Break program
2.  Get recognized with your Co-curricular record
3.  Get fed and rested on campus
4.  Get active at Concordia’s Athletic Complex
5.  Get writing help from a pro
6.  Get Guidance from a Student Mentor
7.  Get settled with the ISO
8.  Get experience with the LIVE Volunteer Resource CentreFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424