http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/english/programs/undergraduate.htmlWe offer a selection of undergraduate degrees in English that will allow you to combine literature, creative writing, history, and professional writing.
Our minor in Literature gives students great flexibiilty in pursuing a secondary field of study. Learn how to add a Minor in English Literature to nearly any degree at Concordia.   Combine creative writing courses with some literary study: Learn how to add a minor in Creative Writing to nearly any degree at Concordia.   We offer a minor in Professional Writing that gives you training as a writing specialist in many professional areas, including business and technical writing.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityUndergraduate programsDepartment of English
            
                Department of English
            What you can studyMinorsCompostion courses and placement test datesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Minor in English Literature
Minor in Creative Writing
Minor in Professional Writinghttp://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/math-stats/programs/undergraduate.htmlThe Mathematics and Statistics Department offers Undergraduate Honours and Specialization programs in Actuarial Mathematics, Actuarial Mathematics & Finance, Mathematical & Computational Finance, Pure & Applied Mathematics, and Statistics; all these programs are also offered as Co-op programs. Students can also choose from two Major programs (a Major in Mathematics & Statistics and a Joint Major in Mathematics & Statistics and Computer Applications), as well as a Minor. A minor is available for students who are in another discipline (i.e. finance, computer science) and who would like a stronger mathematical background to complement their studies. See requirements for the minor in the Undergraduate Calendar.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityUndergraduate programsDepartment of Mathematics & Statistics
            
                Department of Mathematics & StatisticsHonours & SpecializationsMajorsMinorConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/student-life/competitions/undergraduate.htmlAbout the ProgramJMSB has the largest and most successful case competition program in the world. Every year, nearly 200 students are given the chance to represent JMSB at dozens of international competitions.  The entire program is run by a group of student executives and one faculty advisor, Mark Haber, who make up the John Molson Competition Committee (JMCC).

The JMCC visionOur vision is to provide the ultimate university learning experience to JMSB undergraduates and to enhance JMSB’s reputation worldwide.JMCC selects, trains, and sends academic teams to represent Concordia at regional, national and international case competitions. The competitions are focused on various disciplines, inlcuding accounting, entrepreneurship, ethics, finance, HR, international business, marketing, MIS, strategy and tax. Students who are selected compete all over the word - recently, our teams have been to England, Hong Kong, New Zealand, Portugal, Singapore, Spain, Vermont, Washington, and more!

Academic formatStudents are given a real-life case study in which a company has a specific problem. The team has a certain amount of time to analyze the situation and prepare a PowerPoint presentation to present a recommendation to a panel of judges, which include high-level industry professionals.

Case competition classIn order to train for these competitions students are enrolled in a Case Competition class, a 3-credit business elective, which provides students with the presentation and analysis skills needed to excel in the various disciplines.

CoachingEach team is assigned one head coach and a minimum of one assistant coach responsible for training and judging them, in preparation for the competitions they will be attending. Coaches are often successful alumni of the program and have strong case and industry experience.Practical trainingStudents who have competed recognize that being a part of the program helped them gain vital presentation skills and practical knowledge that has prepared them for the working world. The lessons learnt and skills gained by being a part of the case competition program go well beyond the classroom.

NetworkingCompeting leads to unbreakable bonds with fellow competitors both inside and outside of JMSB. Throughout your involvement in the program, you are given the opportunity to meet hundreds of people from other schools and different cultures, especially when sent to international competitions.

Career opportunitiesOur competitors are given the opportunity to meet a countless number of important contacts and many have obtained jobs in the process. It isn’t uncommon to be hired by the very judges who evaluate your presentation, as companies often attend case competitions for recruitment purposes.JMCC holds tryouts for academics disciplines, as well as debate, social, sports and stock simulation beginning in May for the upcoming year of case competitions. For more information and if you have any questions, interest and/or concerns please email info@jmcconline.ca and/or refer to the JMCC website.

© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityUndergraduate competition programJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            NewsRelated LinksFollow the John Molson Competition CommitteeIs it in you to compete?How does it work?What are the benefits of joining?Want more information?Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/education/programs/undergraduate.htmlAs an acclaimed centre of innovation and excellence in both teaching and research, the Department of Education meets the challenges of the future through its widely recognized degree programs. Education is a broad and multidisciplinary field that serves not only teachers and schools, but also educational administrators, and daycare and human resources professionals, among others. The Department of Education is known as a leader in its field, both in terms of its research into teaching methods and in its ability to train and prepare future teachers for their role as educators.Our graduates are highly sought after by school boards, daycares, government, health and social agencies, human resource departments and the business community, as well as other universities and educational institutions.
The BA Minor in Adult Education is designed to provide formal instruction to present and future practitioners in the field of adult education who are pursuing a Bachelor's/Baccalaureate degree. The major goal of the Adult Education Programme is to provide learning activities that will foster the development of skills and knowledge required of educators working with adults in a variety of settings. Emphasis will be on hands-on, participatory methodologies.The program also addresses issues in government policy, the economics of human capital, learning in organizational settings, self-direction and facilitation of adult learning.
If you would like to prepare for a professional career working with children or conducting research that focuses on them, the Department of Education offers the BA in Child Studies, which has made its mark on the field, preparing graduates to work as early childhood educators and administrators in a variety of settings, including day and after-school care programs, and to work with children experiencing a wide variety of special needs.Many of the graduates of our BA programs subsequently continue their education through graduate studies in education, child studies, psychology or social work. The breadth of early childhood studies is reflected in the range of our faculty research interests, which include:In all of our Early Childhood/Child Studies programs, the focus on children extends beyond the context of educational institutions to consider family, community and cultural contexts and influences.
If you would like to prepare for a professional career working with children or conducting research that focuses on them, the Department of Education offers the teacher education program. Which provides students with a unique and satisfying preparation that equips them to excel in their chosen profession. 

Many of the graduates of our BA programs subsequently continue their education through graduate studies in education, child studies, psychology or social work. The breadth of early childhood studies is reflected in the range of our faculty research interests, which include:In all of our Early Childhood/Child Study programs, the focus on children extends beyond the context of educational institutions to consider family, community and cultural contexts and influences.This program leads to teacher certification by the Ministry of Education, Leisure and Sport in Quebec. It prepares teachers for K-6 certification. This program has a reputation for excellence and offers students personalized guidance. We provide well-supervised and extensive field experiences that give our graduates the confidence and competence they require to succeed in their chosen careers.
The Minor in Education is a 24 credit undergraduate programme, designed to provide formal instruction for individuals interested in exploring the broad field of education. This Minor can be usefully combined with a wide range of other disciplines such psychology, sociology, history, and business studies.Courses in the Minor include both basic and applied aspects of the field, including:
The BEd in Teaching English as a Second Language prepares teachers to work with children and adults of all ages. This program has a reputation for excellence and offers students personalized guidance. We provide well-supervised and extensive field experiences that give our graduates the confidence and competence they require to succeed in their chosen careers.The BEd Specialization in Teaching English as a Second Language, which is a 120-credit program that leads to a permanent provincial teacher certification.The Certificate in Teaching English as a Second Language is a 30-credit undergraduate program offered to expert speakers of English who have a completed an undergraduate degree and are interest in teaching ESL. The program does not lead to provincial certification but it provides an excellent training in TESL.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityUndergraduate programs in EducationDepartment of Education
            
                Department of Education
            What you can studyConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424