http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/applied-human-sciences/programs/graduate/human-systems-intervention-ma/workload.htmlThere are two, one week-long off-campus residential laboratories at the beginning of each of the first and second year. These are scheduled during the last week of August.  These are extremely intense laboratories with sessions generally scheduled for most mornings, afternoons and evenings.Time completing course readings and assignments between classes is approximately 20 – 30 hours per week on a regular basis.  Additional time is necessary for team-based assignments and practice based courses with real world assignments (e.g. AHSC 670 Consulting Skills).AHSC 675 (Elective) and AHSC 685 are usually scheduled as on-campus week-long intensive courses. These are normally scheduled at the beginning of the second year, in May and June.  In addition, there is a 1-2 day site visit for AHSC 680 in July.The week-long off-campus residential laboratory noted above at the beginning of the second year is for AHSC 680. In addition, this course requires a four-day weekend (Friday, Saturday, Sunday & Monday) in October. There is a substantial amount of course work (alone and with classmates) to be done between the laboratory and the weekend.AHSC 698 (Masters Project) is the final requirement in the program.  There is an unpredictable amount of time required to do this project given that it is done with a real world client.  However, students who are able to finalize a contract with a client in the fall or early winter can normally complete the project requirements by the following summer and graduate in the fall.Students who work a regular 40 hour week, have a supportive employer and do not have heavy family commitments (young children or aging parents e.g.) have been able to complete the program while working. However a full time work load added to a full time study load may be very difficult to deal with, mainly during the first year.Therefore, students are strongly encouraged to devise a flexible and workable plan with their families and employers before commencing the MA program. A regular review of this plan, as the student progresses through the program, is also encouraged.  Students are also encouraged to speak with the Graduate Program Director if they are experiencing difficulties.© Concordia UniversityDepartment of Applied Human Sciences
Office L-VE-223
 1455 de Maisoneuve Blvd. West
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 1M8
7141 Sherbrooke St. West,
Office VE-223
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 2E9

See building mapConcordia UniversityAcademic WorkloadDepartment of Applied Human Sciences
            
                Department of Applied Human SciencesResidential Laboratories:Workload during the First year:Workload during the Second year:In conclusion……..Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424