http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/cda/edit-rooms/workshops.htmlThe CDA offers introductory workshops on video and sound software. Throughout the workshops specific software is demonstrated but the accent is always on principles that can be applied to similar software.These workshops are available free to all students who have paid their CDA fees.All video workshops are held in EV 5.718 (next to the CDA Open Access Lab) from 2 PM to 5 PM.
Workshops are limited to 12 people per session and are free to all active CDA members.
Workshops are not consecutive, they are repeated sessions. Each workshop lasts only three hours.
Dates and descriptions may be subject to change. Please keep checking this page.
Please contact Phil Hawes (EV 5.429, ext: 4912) if you have any questions.Other useful information about video and working in the CDA Edit rooms can be found in the CDA Video Forum.To register for a workshop click on the link at the very bottom of this page. When you log in you will see a calendar with the workshop dates. Navigate to the appropriate date.Workshop DatesFall 2016Friday September 30th- Introduction to Video Editing in Premiere
Thursday October 13th - Introduction to Video Editing in Premiere
Friday October 28th - After Effects for Video Editors
Thursday November 10th - After Effects for Video Editors
Friday November 25th - High Dynamic Range Video - Sony FS5
Thursday December 8th - High Dynamic Range Video- Sony FS5
Winter 2017Friday January 13th - Introduction to Video Editing
Thursday January 26th - Introduction to Video Editing
Friday February 10th - Sound Editing in Adobe Audition
Thursday February 23rd - Sound Editing in Adobe Audition
Friday March 10 - DaVinci Resolve
Thursday March 23rd - DaVinci Resolve
 This a workshop for beginners on how to start editing video. No prior experience is necessary but an existing level of frustration with iMovie can help. This is a hands-on workshop with a demonstration project to work on.Includes: reccomended hard drives and organizing your media, importing media through the media browser, basic editing operations, trim editing, preview files, text, transitions, applying effects, using image sequences, exporting at full quality and a brief introduction to the Media Encoder. Some of the new features in Adobe CC 2015 will be discussed.After Effects is Adobe's video compositing software that combines layers of video to create various effects but it also does many of the common effects that we find in Premiere (like speed adjustments) much better. With "Dynamic Linking", After Effects can become a more elaborate effects window in your editing software. Like Photoshop, After Effects has enough features for a six credit course but following this brief workshop you should be comfortable enough to open the application and start exploring certain essential features for video editors: speed adjustments, working with layers, keyframing, mattes, track mattes, chroma keying, and text. This is a hands-on workshop with a demonstration project to work on.Includes: dynamic link, composition settings, workspace bit depth, pixel aspect correction, workspace configurations, keyframing, speed changes, working with layers, parenting, expressions, multi-point mattes, tracking objects, keylight, text tools, 3D layers, render queue. Some of the new features in Adobe CC 2015 will be discussed..Any video will require image contrast and color adjustment. Video scopes and a calibrated monitor are essential for any accurate color video work. Learn how to adjust video color with reference to video scopes common to any video editing or video effects software but looking specifically at the new vastly improved color correction tools in Premiere CC 2015. This workshop is the first step in learning color and contrast adjustment. This is a hands-on workshop with a demonstration project to work on.We will also look specifically at the CDA color correction edit room and the FSI LM-2461 monitor.Includes: additive color, zones of luminance, video scopes, calibration, contrast, eliminating color casts, primary and secondary color correction.The following more advanced topics will be briefly covered: working with RAW or Log sampled video in Premiere, "Direct-Link" to Adobe SpeedGrade, importing LUTs. The next step in learning image color and contrast adjusmtent is learning DaVinci Resolve, an application dedicated to color grading that is also a capable video editor. The great advantage of Resolve is that the "lite" version is free and this version has about 90 percent of the full version's features. The CDA has both Lite and Full versions of Resolve. Also, If you are working with any of the Black Magic Design Cameras it really helps to know Resolve.Because the software is so vast, the accent is on what makes Resolve particular. Particpants will be expected to have a prior knowledge of color correction (in Adobe Premiere or After Effects for example). The fundamentals of working with RAW video will be outlined. The workshop will cover the details of organizing a project, conforming editing sequences for Resolve from editing programs, importng XML files, how to handle RAW video, applying custom LUTS, saving and recalling stills, basic editing, basic primary and secondary controls for Log and Linear correction, rendering, copying grades, nodes, masks, keyframing. This is a hands-on workshop with a demonstration project to work on.There will be a short demonstration of the proper monitoring procedure from the full version of Resolve to the FSI color correction monitor in cda edit room zero. Audition is a capable multi-track audio editing, mixing and recording software included in the Adobe CC Suite.
Prior knowledge of audio concepts will help with this workshop but are not necessarily required.
The workshop covers the following topics:
The interface and basic tools: the multi-track viewer and the waveform editor
Common Effects: EQ, Reverb and Noise Reduction
Understanding signal paths: the mix window, inserts and buses
Mastering: understanding and adjusting loudness levels
As part of the Adobe Suite of applications, Audition also works well in conjunction with other applications like Premiere.
Sequences from Premiere can be easily migrated to Audition for more accurate audio editing and mixing.Digital Cinema Cameras are video cameras capable of shooting with a higher dynamic range, simultaneously preserving detail in highlights and shadows to create a more naturalistic image.
The most common format for high dynamic range video is RAW (always written in CAPS for some reason). Each camera manufacturer has it’s own RAW video format. But it is also possible to shoot with a higher dynamic range using compressed video codecs. In this workshop we will compare the two methods and then look in detail at shooting in ‘Log” encoding mode. The two cameras covered in detail are available to all CDA members: the Sony FS5 and the Black Magic Pocket Camera. It is also a very good workshop for people wishing to know more about these cameras in general.
High Dynamic Range Video requires adjustment in post-production to “normalize” it, to make it look correct on a computer monitor. We will look at the tools in Premiere and DaVinci Resolve for accomplishing this task.
The workshop includes the following:
Sony FS5 - menu settings and controls, SLog picture profiles, Auto exposure compensation and judging exposure manually
BMD Pocket Camera-
menu settings and controls (or lack of them), shooting in Film Mode with Pro Res HQ
Adobe Premiere - Lumetri Color Tool, importing and using LUTS
DaVinci Resolve - normalizing settings, creating LUTS, batch export toolHours of operationSubmit a ticketMembershipMy accountContact UsWalk-in
EV 5.770 or MB 8.235© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityWorkshopsCentre for Digital Arts
            
                Centre for Digital ArtsIntroduction to Video Editing with Premiere CC 2015
                
            
                
					
                    After Effects for Video Editors
                
            
                
					
                    Video Color Correction
                
            
                
					
                    DaVinci Resolve
                
            
                
					
                    Sound Editing in Adobe Audtion
                
            
                
					
                    High Dynamic Range Video - Sony FS5Register for a WorkshopConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424