http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/applied-human-sciences/programs/graduate/youth-work-diploma.htmlThe Graduate Diploma in Youth Work prepares students for work with youth using an applied approach that integrates community youth development with clinical understandings. Emancipatory and psycho-education approaches will be emphasized as well as the capacity for innovative, ethical, and reflexive practice. As leaders in the youth work field, graduates will have developed advanced intervention skills, the ability to establish facilitative relationships and collaborative strength-based approaches in a range of contexts.Requirements for the DiplomaCredits. A fully qualified candidate is required to complete a minimum of 33 credits. In cases where cross-listed courses at the undergraduate level have already been completed, the candidate is required to select electives from a pre-approved list in order to fulfill the 33-credit requirement. A fully qualified candidate is required to complete a minimum of 33 credits.Cross-listed courses:  In cases where cross-listed courses at the undergraduate level have already been completed, the candidate is required to select electives from a pre-approved list in order to fulfill the 33-credit requirement.Time Limits for Diploma Programs:  All work for a diploma program must be completed within 6 terms (2 years) from the time of initial registration in the program for full-time students; for part-time students the time limit is 12 terms (4 years).Academic Standing: The academic progress of graduate students is monitored on a periodic basis.  Students in the youth work diploma must maintain a minimum GPA of 2.70 during their program of study in order to be considered in good academic standing. Students whose GPA falls below 2.70 are considered to be on academic probation during the following review period. Students whose GPA falls below 2.70 for two consecutive review periods are withdrawn from the program.Admission Requirements. The minimum requirement for admission is a Bachelor’s/Baccalaureate degree with a minimum GPA of 3.00 and two letters of recommendation. Required prerequisites at the undergraduate level include at least three credits in adolescent development and three credits in social science research methods. Evidence of some volunteer or work experience with children or youth is required, and both a letter of intent and interview are required for admission. Candidates must be aware that a Police Check is required prior to an internship placement.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Sample classesRequired CoursesAHSC 510 Advanced Research Methods in Youth Work (3 credits)
This course reviews approaches to applied research that are applicable to youth work practice. Students compare a range of methodological approaches, explore definitions of evidence-based practice and learn techniques for collecting, analyzing and disseminating qualitative and quantitative data. Students undertake an applied research project, relevant to an area of practice or programs of intervention with youth. Emphasis is placed on ethical issues, developmentally appropriate research practices, and accountability.AHSC 520 Psychoeducation and Youth Work Ethics in Practice (3 credits)
This course provides an introduction to applied ethics in youth work with a focus on the Code of Ethics of the Ordre des psychoéducateurs et psychoéducatrices du Québec. It also reviews the policy, legislative and organizational contexts of the practice of psychoeducation and youth work, and considers the ways in which models of ethical decision making inform practice. Topics include confidentiality and information sharing in inter-professional contexts, balancing issues of control, empowerment and education, developing critical reflexivity, and appreciating the complexities and dilemmas inherent in youth work practice.AHSC 522 Fundamentals of Child and Youth Care Work (3 credits)
This course provides students with an understanding of the scope and status of child and youth care work, sensitizes them to the necessary competencies and daily challenges of this work in a range of settings, and reviews relevant theory. Intervention planning in the context of psychoeducation and relational child and youth care work is emphasized.AHSC 525 Individual and Group Intervention with Youth (3 credits)
Prerequisite: AHSC 522 previously or concurrently.
A main focus of this course is to develop skills in relationship building and communication with youth. A micro-skills approach is introduced, as well principles of group leadership and crisis intervention with youth. There is a required fieldwork component to include one hour per week of observation in a youth work setting.AHSC 527 Advanced Youth Work Intervention: Case Management and Supervision (3 credits)
Prerequisite: AHSC 525.
This course explores the fundamental concepts and theories of case management and supervision as applied to youth work practice. Topics include supervisory relationship and process issues, self-care, ethical and professional considerations, leadership and mentoring relationships, multi-disciplinary teams and teamwork, managing change, debriefing in response to a crisis and developing, implementing and monitoring effective and collaborative case plans with young people and their families.AHSC 530 Community Youth Development (3 credits)
Prerequisite: AHSC 525.
This course explores both historical and contemporary foundations of non-formal, community-based youth development in Canada and internationally. It focuses on creating opportunities for youth to engage with individuals, organizations and institutions at the community level. Various community youth development models are explored in-depth with practical applications for community-based youth programs, including life skills, assets, resiliency, and ecological models. Emphasis is placed on research, theory and practice applied in community youth development environments.AHSC 540 Mental Health and Addictions: Youth Work Perspectives, Policies and Practices (3 credits)
Prerequisite: AHSC 525.
This course explores the precursors, presentations, nature and impacts of mental health concerns and addictions for youth, their families, and within communities. Students have the opportunity to develop, and apply within the classroom, knowledge and skills related to addictions and mental illness prevention, assessment and intervention, and mental health promotion. Topics include an introduction to adolescent psychopathology; diagnosis, assessment, and current policy and practices in relation to the current edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of the American Psychiatric Association (DSM); the uses of standardized testing to evaluate adaptation; psychopharmacology; suicide; evidence-based and alternative treatment interventions (e.g., psychoeducational approaches; dialectical behaviour therapy);ethical and legislative considerations; and the roles/responsibilities of youth workers in the inter-professional and community care of adolescents with mental health and/or addictions concerns.AHSC 565 Parent-Child Relations (3 credits)
This course provides an advanced understanding of parenting theories, research, and applications in the context of parent-child relations over the life span. Topics include parenting rights and responsibilities, parenting practices and programs, high-risk parenting, issues in the transition from parenting children to parenting adolescents and parental assessment.Elective CoursesAHSC 512 Sexuality in Human Relations (3 credits)
This course provides students with knowledge of physical and psychosocial aspects of sexuality in relationships through life and specifically during adolescence with an examination of values, attitudes, and issues related to the development and expression of sexuality. Topics include gender identity development, fuzzy identities, teen pregnancy, family, cultural and media influences; historically and culturally based attitudes; prevention and sexually transmitted diseases; self-perception and identity in sexuality; sexual diversity; and emotion and sexuality. The course aims to foster respect for persons and diversity.AHSC 513 Family Communication (3 credits)
This course is an examination of patterns, effective approaches, and issues in communication among persons in primary partnerships and families with adolescents. It also explores topics such as diversity in forms of “family,” decision-making, problem-solving, power relations, gender issues, managing differences in expectations, and the influences of cultural, social, and economic contexts. Interventions for youth work practice designed to enhance communication and strengthen the parent-youth bond are explored.AHSC 551 Counselling Skills and Concepts (6 credits)
This course advances students’ understanding of core counselling theories and develops an understanding for theoretical and value frameworks of the youth work therapeutic relationship. It fosters the application of essential helping skills for relational practice within youth work settings. Skill areas include attending skills, such as attending to nonverbal behaviour, reflection of content, reflection of feeling, paraphrasing and summarizing, empathy, selfdisclosure; and influencing skills, such as interpretation and analysis. Also highlighted are ethical issues, attention to cultural differences, and practitioner reflexivity.AHSC 560 Health Promotion (6 credits)
This course helps students to develop intervention skills and theoretical understanding in the area of health promotion across the lifespan. It is of particular interest to youth work students whose career interests involve lifestyle planning, health and wellness promotion, and stress management with young people. A holistic approach including cultural and developmental understandings are discussed in relation to the following topics: health and wellness, stress and illness, psychological and physical self‑appraisal processes, psychosomatic processes and disorders, understanding addictions and their management, interventions to promote health and wellness, behavioural self‑management, and issues in medical/psychological health compliance.AHSC 598 Special Topics in Youth Work (3 credits)
Specific topics for this course and prerequisites relevant in each case are stated in the Graduate Class Schedule.AHSC 599 Independent Study (3 credits)
Prerequisite: Permission of the Department.
Students work on topics in consultation with a study supervisor. The study may include readings, field studies, and/or research.FieldworkAHSC 533 Internship I in Youth Work (3 credits)
Prerequisites: AHSC 522, 525.
This entry-level internship in youth work is designed to provide an opportunity for a first field experience that promotes integration into a clinical or normative youth work setting. A major focus is on participatory observation. Students are required to participate in a field placement one day per week, for a total of 100 hours in settings such as schools, community organizations, hospitals, or rehabilitation centres. The site is selected in consultation with the Graduate Program Director.AHSC 537 Internship II in Youth Work (6 credits)
Prerequisites: AHSC 533 and 24 credits completed in youth work with permission of the Department.
This 220-hour internship is designed to provide a supervised apprenticeship in either a clinical or normative youth work setting that builds on the student’s previous courses. The focus of this internship is that the student fully assumes all the duties and responsibilities of a youth worker in the same site selected for the first internship. The student’s work is supervised and evaluated by an on-site field supervisor.ORAHSC 538 Extended Internship in Youth Work (9 credits)
Prerequisites: AHSC 533 and 24 credits completed in youth work with permission of the Department.
This 320-hour internship is designed to provide a full-time supervised experience in either a clinical or a normative youth work setting and requires additional hours to assist the student in building his/her application for licensing. The focus of this internship is that the student fully assumes all the duties and responsibilities of a youth worker in the same site selected for the first internship. The student’s work is supervised and evaluated by an on-site field supervisor.Graduate students have several sources of financial support across Concordia. See graduate funding sources.Students should consult with the Graduate Program Director once they are accepted into the program.Timeline for full-time students:AHSC 527
AHSC 530
AHSC 540
AHSC 533 (subject to approval) AHSC 520AHSC 535 or 536Timeline for part-time students:2 courses per termAHSC 525AHSC 522*elective to replace 522 to be taken in fallAHSC 540AHSC 527  AHSC 520 TERM 4 TERM 5 AHSC 510AHSC 565*
elective to replace 565 to be taken in fallAHSC 530AHSC 533 (subject to approval)  AHSC 535 or 536 *Cross-listed from Human Relations undergraduate program 1. Can the Graduate Diploma in Youth Work be completed on a part-time basis?Yes. But the minimum recommended course load is 2 courses (6 credits), which would allow the completion of the diploma in 5 semesters.2.  What does an internship mean? How is it different from the undergraduate one? Are there limits on the duration of the internship (over what time period?) Can I take my internship before completing all courses?An internship is an apprenticeship in Youth Work where you assume a professional role with the support of a site supervisor and a program instructor. The internship in the Diploma provides an opportunity to assume professional roles in Youth Work that differ from your previous work experience and build on the courses in the program. The internship may be completed full time over one semester, or half time over two semesters. You cannot start the internship without completing all of your course requirements.3.  Can the internship be paid?Exceptionally, yes, but you cannot do the internship in your current job. If your place of work has opportunities for you to take on a new role,  that may be an acceptable internship but must be negotiated with the Graduate Program Director. The intent of the internship is to provide an opportunity for developing new skills, rather than provide credits for a job you are already engaged in.4. Can I take courses in the program in the evening or online?Some courses in the program will be offered online or in the evening. There will also be courses that are scheduled intensively, in complete days rather than weekly over the course of the semester. However, it will be necessary to take a significant proportion of the courses in this diploma during the day. Working full time may not be possible for the whole length of the program.5. Can I apply without having my research methods? What if I take it over the summer?You must complete the required prerequisite to the program before you begin in September. If you can provide evidence that you will be taking the research methods course over the summer, you may be considered for Conditional acceptance pending the successful completion of the course.6. Can in-service training or professional workshops count as the prerequisites for admission?If you have taken professional training or workshop in Human Development or Research with Youth, you can ask for those trainings to be considered towards the prerequisite for the program. To do so, you must submit documentation about the training, either a written outline provided by the trainer or a letter from the organization.7.  What if I don’t have any experience working with youth?An important prerequisite of this program is some experience with children or youth. This can be volunteer experience, work at a camp or even babysitting, and can be a time limited experience. Please avail yourself of the many volunteer experiences in the local community.8.  When will notices for acceptance be sent out?You will be notified of our decision by mid-late April.9.  Will you have interviews?We will be conducting telephone interviews when the admissions committee judges that an interview is required to clarify some aspects of the application.10.  What do I include in my letter of intent?The letter of intent is your opportunity to explain your reasons for coming in to the program, and how your background has prepared you for this program. It is your opportunity to communicate anything you think is important for us to know when we are considering your application.11.  Can my reference letters come from out of country? Can they deal with work with young children?Your reference letters can come from anywhere as long as they arrive in time to complete your file. Experience with young children is considered relevant for admission.12. What are the job opportunities for graduates of this program?There are a range of job opportunities for graduates of this program, depending on their interests, their choice of internship and the experience they bring to the program. Qualified youth workers are in demand in the community sector as well as in youth mental health, education and child welfare. An important consideration as you build your program will be to develop your application for membership in the professional Order of Psychoeducators. To do this, you may need to take additional courses, beyond the basic requirements of the Diploma.  © Concordia UniversityDepartment of Applied Human Sciences
Office L-VE-223
 1455 de Maisoneuve Blvd. West
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 1M8
7141 Sherbrooke St. West,
Office VE-223
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 2E9

See building mapConcordia UniversityYouth Work (GrDip)Department of Applied Human Sciences
            
                Department of Applied Human Sciences
            Key resourcesJoin the conversationRelated linksDistinctive features of this program
                
            
                
					
                    Who is this program for?
                
            
                
					
                    What will you learn?
                
            
                
					
                    Requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Funding
                
            
                
					
                    Program timeline
                
            
                
					
                    FAQWhy pursue a diploma in youth work?Program detailsGraduate Diploma (GrDip)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424