http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2014/05/28/-i-always-try-tomakethingsmeaningful.htmlRobert Soroka was completing his MBA at Concordia when he applied for his first part-time teaching job at Montreal’s LaSalle College. He didn’t get it.Not one to give up, he tried once more.“It became an issue for me,” Soroka says. “I had to apply again.”The second time around, he was offered the job, and what was supposed to be a way to make a few extra bucks while he was finishing school slowly grew into a lifelong passion.“I fell in love with the notion of teaching.”Soroka went on to accept other part-time jobs before coming back to Concordia, where he taught his first course in 1989.Once he decided that teaching was going to be a mainstay in his professional life, Soroka committed himself to the craft.“I worked hard to establish not only my credibility but also my skill set. My credibility came from the professional, industrial work that I was doing.”Outside of the classroom, Soroka has worn many hats: marketing and financial analyst, industry consultant, criminal lawyer, television and radio personality and playwright. The one constant has been teaching.“It’s always been part of the equation,” he says. “﻿You have to be passionate, and I've never once felt it was a chore to come to work when I'm teaching. I just love it.”Soroka’s marketing classes at the John Molson School of Business draw on the wealth of experience he has gained as a consultant.“I think it's important for students to understand that what they can learn from a textbook is just one fraction of what is indeed happening out in the real world,” he says.Shaping the next generation of marketing mavens and entrepreneurs is demanding work, but Soroka says he wouldn’t trade the hours he gets to spend in the classroom for even the most lucrative consulting contracts.“This is a great profession. You can teach the same course 50 or 60 times, and it's always different — different students, a different energy. I consider it a pleasure and a privilege to stand up in front of a class and help develop competency.”For Francine Jones, a part-time instructor in the Department of Marketing since 1990, the key to a good course is making it relevant to students.

“You can’t love what you don’t know,” she says. “I always try to make things meaningful and attention-worthy by seeing how I can relate them to people’s interests.”In “Introduction to Marketing,” Jones presents her students with a new product in need of a buyer: shoes that allow the wearer walk on water. While this footwear doesn’t exist, it’s easy to understand how it could become a major commodity.“We have a ball with it,” Jones says. “The students go into a huddle to come up with names for the shoes, and then we vote on the best one.”The water-shoes concept illustrates another keystone of Jones's teaching: highlighting the connections between different knowledge areas — what she calls the “hub-and-spoke” view of education.A textbook Jones uses in the course includes 18 chapters on different aspects of marketing. The shoes are a great way to tie it all together and teach students about the full spectrum of the field.“Each time we come to a chapter in the textbook, whether it’s a chapter on design, distribution, pricing, or promotion, we come back to the concept of the shoes that walk on water.”Jones brings a wealth of industry experience to the classroom. Before becoming a teacher, she served as an advertising and public relations officer at the Queen Elizabeth Hotel for Hilton Canada and marketing director for the Quebec Furniture Manufacturers Association. She also ran her own consulting firm.An avid watercolour painter and jewellery maker who moonlights as a guide at the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts, Jones is also a voracious consumer of culture.As she tells her students, a broad knowledge base — one with an eye on the past, present and future — is what sets great business minds apart from good ones.“The wider, the more undulated and the more eclectic the information someone collects in their lifetime, the more they'll be able to appreciate and see.”
 Read about three part-time instructors from the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science. 
        ‘You teach because it’s a calling’
    
        From fearless public speaking to light shows at the Super Bowl
    
        A passion for teaching
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia University‘I always try to make things meaningful’: meet 2 of Concordia’s inspired part-time teachersNews
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsThe professional professor
A ‘hub-and-spoke’ view of education
Find an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424