http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2012/04/04/accolades-for-the-week-of-april-2.htmlCorinne Maltais, responsible for records management in the Services area, was involved in the production of Archives à Voix Haute - Place aux femmes, an exhibition at the McCord Museum that celebrated International Women's Day. While many other Montreal universities and institutions were involved, Maltais was given sole credit for the visual concept, described by one writer as an "étonnant montage visuel." Mariana Frank (Department of Physics) has been chosen by the American Physical Society (APS) as an Outstanding Referee for Physical Review and Physical Review Letters for 2012. The title is granted to scientists who have been exceptionally helpful in assessing manuscripts for publication in the APS journals.     In June, Gary Johns (Department of Management) will receive the Award for Distinguished Contributions to Industrial and Organizational Psychology from the Canadian Society for Industrial and Organizational Psychology. The award, given only every four or five years, will be presented at the annual convention of the Canadian Psychological Association in Halifax, Nova Scotia. Rustam Vahidov (Department of Decision Sciences and Management Information Systems) has recently published the book entitled, Design-Type Research in Information Systems (IGI Global), which aims to demonstrate that design-type research is a legitimate scientific activity, particularly in the context of the field of information systems.   Design-type research deals with the multidisciplinary issues of methodology of design, design principles and guidelines, and philosophy of design with the aim of producing knowledge that aids designers in becoming more effective and efficient. Co-Director of the Azrieli Institute of Israel Studies and Chair of the Department of Political Science Csaba Nikolenyi has been awarded a 2012 Summer Institute Fellowship at the Schusterman Center for Israel Studies, Brandeis University. “The Summer Institute for Israel Studies assists faculty in colleges and universities who have been asked to design new courses in Israel Studies. The program includes a two-week seminar-in-residence at Brandeis and a week-long study tour in Israel”. The workshop Skins, led by Concordia’s Jason Lewis, in collaboration with the Kahnawake Survival School, was recently honoured by the Changemakers Initiative: Inspiring Approaches to First Nations, Métis and Inuit Learning.   Funded by Ashoka Canada, The Counselling Foundation of Canada, The J.W. McConnell Family Foundation, and the Martin Aboriginal Education Initiative, Changemakers is awarding more than $90,000 to 30 winning ideas and projects from 266 entries.  Skins combines instruction in video game design with immersion into Aboriginal stories and storytelling techniques. Designed by the Aboriginal Territories in Cyberspace research team, Skins specifically addresses the unique world view of Native youth. Participants learn how to “translate” their stories, legends and oral traditions into a new medium: the video game. Philippa Bell, PhD candidate in the applied linguistics stream, has won a prestigious graduate student award given by the American Association for Applied Linguistics (AAAL). The merit-based award supports the attendance of AAAL graduate student members at the annual conference, held in Boston in March 2012.  The primary consideration in granting the award is the academic merit of the student’s proposal submitted to the conference. Bell presented findings from her doctoral research in presentation entitled Implicit Learning and Explicit Learning of Second-Language Syntax by Adults.  Coincidentally, it's the same award won by her thesis supervisor, Laura Collins, in 1998. Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityAccolades for the week of April 2Department of Physics
            
                Department of Physics
            Related TopicsFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424