http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/students/advising-registration-withdrawal.htmlNeed help? If you have questions, do not hesitate to get some assistance! See your department advisor or an Academic Counsellor in Student Academic Services!As a newly admitted Arts and Science student, advising is mandatory. To be advised, you should meet with the department advisor. Ideally, this is done in-person. We do recognize, however, that this is difficult for out-of-province students; in this situation they can contact their department via phone or email. It is strongly recommended that students whose advising is done by phone or email still make an appointment to meet with their department advisor upon their arrival in Montreal.Newly admitted students should also read the Guide to First Year and take advantage of the new student orientation activities offered by the New Student Program through Counselling and Development.Some returning students must be advised by their department advisor. To see if you need advising, please read the Registration guide.Other students may wish to meet with someone to discuss their academic situation. Student Academic Services offers daily advising appointments with eight academic counsellors to help you find your way.Students who have been away from their studies for nine or more consecutive terms require advising. Students must first meet with an Academic Counsellor in Student Academic Services (SAS). Following that meeting, students will meet with their department advisor.Students whose assessment and academic standing has placed them on Conditional standing must meet with their department advisor. Students assessed as being on Failed standing must apply for readmission prior to seeking advising and permission to register.Students complete their registration through their MyConcordia portal. Students are expected to:Although the registration process is very simple, students must follow all steps carefully. Confirming, when adding and/or dropping a course, is an important step in the registration process that ensures the actual registration into or withdrawal from the course(s). Failure to complete this part of the process will result in no registration or your commitment to the course (fees and academic completion).Students needing an exception to the posted registration and academic withdrawal deadlines (DNE/DISC) will be required to submit a Student Request form in order to complete the process after the fact. Additional or supporting documentation or information is required.Students who intended to withdraw, with refund (DNE), but who did not complete the process properly, or in a timely manner, will remain responsible for all fees and tuition. Only in exceptional cases, can a refund (DNE) be issued. Students should visit the student portal (MyConcordia Menu » Student Administrative Affairs » UG Course Drop/Withdrawal) for further information about official withdrawal procedures.To ensure that you have successfully withdrawn from your course(s), you must follow all steps indicated in the registration process. Confirming, when adding and/or dropping a course, is an important registration step in order to ensure your actual registration or withdrawal in the course(s). Failure to complete this part of the process will result in the course(s) remaining on your record or your commitment to the course (fees and academic completion).

Students needing an exception to the posted registration and academic withdrawal deadlines (DNE/DISC) will be required to submit a Student Request form in order to complete the process after the fact. Additional or supporting documentation or information is required.

Students who intended to withdraw, with refund (DNE), but who did not complete the process properly, or in a timely manner, will remain responsible for all fees and tuition. Only in exceptional cases, can a refund (DNE) be issued. Students should visit the student portal (MyConcordia Menu » Student Administrative Affairs » UG Course Drop/Withdrawal) for further information about official withdrawal procedures.Knowing how, when, and where to register is one of the first steps you must take to achieve academic success!  © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityAdvising, registration and withdrawalFaculty of Arts and Science
            
                Faculty of Arts and Science
            Related LinksAdvising
                
            
                
					
                    Registration
                
            
                
					
                    WithdrawalAs a student, you are responsible for:Who needs advising?Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Newly admitted studentsReturning studentsLapsed studentsConditional or failed standing students