http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/about/jobs/tenure-track-appointments/british-literature-since-1945.htmlThe Department of English at Concordia University in Montreal, Quebec invites applications for a tenure-stream appointment at the rank of Assistant Professor in British Literature since 1945. A doctorate in hand or imminent is necessary. Scholarly publications and university teaching experience are desirable. The candidate will contribute to the department’s robust research milieu through, for example, supervision of Masters and Doctoral dissertations in modern and contemporary British literature, and will enjoy opportunities to collaborate in a variety of relevant interdisciplinary programs and research centres. The candidate will teach period, genre, and specialized courses in our undergraduate and graduate programs, and will be involved in curricular innovation across the span of our British Literature course offerings.  Applications should include a cover letter, curriculum vitae, teaching and research statements, a writing sample, evidence of teaching effectiveness and three letters of reference.  Please submit only electronic applications. All applications should be sent to:Dr. Andre Furlani, Chair
 Department of English
 Concordia University
 Chair.engl.fas@concordia.caInquiries may be directed to Dr. Furlani at Chair.engl.fas@concordia.ca. Subject to budgetary approval, the position begins on August 1, 2017. Review of applications will continue until the position is filled. Applications should reach the Department no later than December 12, 2016. Concordia University pledges itself to employment equity and fosters diversity; applicants are encouraged to describe how they may further our Department’s commitment to diversity. All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadian citizens and permanent residents enjoy priority.   All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadian citizens and permanent residents of Canada will be given priority. Concordia University is committee to employment equity.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFaculty of Arts and Science
            
                Faculty of Arts and Science
            Tenure-Track position in British Literature since 1945Employment equityConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424