http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/students/change-concentration-degree-transfer.htmlStudents can add a program (i.e., add a Minor) or change their concentration (Specialization to Major) of their program after they have at least 24 credits on record. Some departments may have specific requirements before accepting you into their programs. It is strongly recommended that you visit the department website first.Students can also complete a degree transfer. Students who wish to transfer from a BA to a BSc, a BSc to a BA, or a BA or BSc to a BEd, must meet the degree requirements or receive a recommendation from the department to begin the new degree.If you wish to change your program concentration (for example, Major to Specialization), you must make an appointment with your department advisor. If approved, your department will complete the change of concentration on your behalf.If you wish to add another program to your current degree (for example, adding another Major or Minor), you must make an appointment with the department advisor in the program you wish to enter. If approved, that department will complete the change of concentration on your behalf.If you wish to change your program, you must make an appointment with the department advisor of the program you wish to enter. This department will add the new program and withdraw you from the old program.Students who wish to change their concentration to the Honours concentration, must make an appointment with the Honours advisor in their department. Admission to an Honours programs has additional requirements. For more information, please consult the Faculty's Honours regulations in the Undergraduate Calendar.Students who wish to change their degree (BA to a BSc, for example) must go to the degree transfer requirements page for more information. The degree transfer process is similar to the admission process. Once your request has been reviewed, a letter will be sent to you informing you of the outcome.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityChange of concentration or degree transferFaculty of Arts and Science
            
                Faculty of Arts and ScienceChange of concentrationDegree transferConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424