http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/it/services/event-room-bookings-ems.htmlMyEvents is used by both the Concordia community (faculty, staff and student associations) and external clients for event and room reservations.  MyEvents allows users to browse rooms, reserve a conference room, meeting room, classroom, or a venue to host a reception.  There are both public and private MyConcordia portal access points to the MyEvents system, and each user has different permissions based on their relationship to the university. This service is managed by Hospitality Concordia, and they should be contacted for all reservation-related inquiries.
Student associations, faculty, staff and external clients
Reservation costs are determined by Hospitality Concordia based on the room, its equipment, and other services that are required for the event. For full details, consult the User and venue rates.
24/7MyEvents has a compiled document outlining important FAQs and user information. Please visit the MyEvents FAQ page for detailed regulations, user permissions, and processes.
The individual authorized to complete the reservation form on behalf of a group (department or association) in order to request space on campus, responsible for ensuring that the event adheres to all university event-related policies and booking terms and conditions.
The requestor has placed the reservation request but the onsite contact is the person who is responsible for being onsite during the entire event (if not the requestor), and assumes responsibility for ensuring that the event adheres to all university event-related policies and booking terms and conditions.
The MyEvents Browse Venues tab will display Hospitality administered space.  Classrooms are also available for events, however priority is granted to academic course scheduling. Your request will be placed on a waiting list until the Registrar's Office has completed their schedule.
MyEvents will present you with choices according to the criteria your provide (i.e. number of attendees, activity, etc.). If you still have questions, contact Petra Alves, Manager, Conference Services at petra.alves@concordia.ca  Page suggestions:© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityEvent & room bookings (EMS)IT Services
            
                IT ServicesMyEvents regulations and FAQ
                
            
                
					
                    Who is a requestor?
                
            
                
					
                    Who is authorized to request space at Concordia?
                
            
                
					
                    What is the difference between the requestor and the onsite contact?
                
            
                
					
                    What spaces are available to host events on campus?
                
            
                
					
                    How do I know which space is best for my event?Who can use it?How much does it cost?How to get itService availabilityDocumentationFAQSee alsoConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Was this page useful to you?