http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/students/faq.htmlIt is your responsibility to ensure you are aware of, and follow, important academic dates and deadlines. These are available from several sources, including:Learn about Quebec residency requirements and the Quebec permanent code requirement.Read your acceptance letter carefully, visit and read the Guide for First Year, then contact the department you were admitted into for Advising/Registration. Pay your confirmation fee.You can book an appointment to see one of the Academic Counsellors in the Faculty of Arts & Science by contacting (514) 848-2424 ext. 2104.If you would like to be considered for the next program choice on your application, you can do so through the Application Centre on the MyConcordia Portal. Click on the "View Status" button and "Start the confirmation process" which will allow you the option to "Change" and decline your current program choice. You must ensure that the program you would like to be considered for is still accepting new applications and that you are able to fulfill the admission requirements.If you do not meet the conditions of your admission, you may no longer qualify to enter the program to which you were conditionally admitted. If there are extenuating circumstances that affected your ability to meet the conditions of your admission, you should send a letter of appeal as soon as possible to the individual who signed your Offer of Admission. This letter must include a detailed description of these circumstances, and supporting documentation.Your admission is valid for only one term, unless otherwise indicated on your Offer of Admission, and cannot be deferred to another term. If you do not register for the term to which you were admitted, you must reapply. Documents sent in support of your original application will not need to be resubmitted.A Full-time student is registered into 12 or more credits per term (Summer, Fall, and Winter).A Part-time student is registered into 9 credits or less per term.You should book an appointment to see one of the Academic Counsellors in the Faculty of Arts & Science, by calling (514) 848-2424 ext. 2104.You have the option of speaking with your professor, your academic advisor, or dropping the course (see above).You have the option of speaking with your professor, your academic advisor, or dropping the course (see above).After checking with your department that all program and degree requirements have been met, you should apply to graduate.The Spring convocation application deadline is January 15 and the Fall convocation graduation application deadline is July 15.The application is available on the MyConcordia.ca portal under Student Services > Graduation Application Form.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFAQFaculty of Arts and Science
            
                Faculty of Arts and Science
            Dates and deadlinesDates and deadlinesAdmission questions
                
					
                    Now that I am admitted, what do I do?
                
            
                
					
                    I am a CEGEP student, how can I meet with someone to find out about the Faculty of Arts and Science?
                
            
                
					
                    I have been accepted into my first choice program, but I would like my second choice to be considered for admission? What do I do?
                
            
                
					
                    What happens if I don't meet the conditions of my admission?
                
            
                
					
                    Can I defer my admission to another term?
                
            Advising questions
                
					
                    Who is a full-time student? A part-time student?
                
            
                
					
                    I want to withdraw from a class. What do I do?
                
            
                
					
                    I just received my mid-term grades and I did not do as well as I thought, what should I do?
                
            
                
					
                    I am in a program that I am not happy in and I would like to change. How can I find out what my options are?
                
            
                
					
                    My degree is finished. What now?
                
            
                
					
                    When do I apply to graduate?
                
            
                
					
                    How do I apply to graduate?Quebec ResidencyConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424