http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/about/jobs/tenure-track-appointments/gpe-ecological-economics.htmlThe Department of Geography, Planning and Environment is seeking a tenure-track appointment in Ecological Economics. The candidate should hold a PhD in a field related to human-environment interactions. They should have an understanding of the economy as being interconnected with societal processes and natural systems as well as a demonstrated knowledge of mainstream economics. The successful candidate will teach courses in our graduate and undergraduate programs as well as supervise Master’s and PhD students. We are looking for research excellence in a field of study relevant to ecological economics such as, but not limited to, measures of sustainable economic progress, degrowth and steady-state economies, ecological debt,  approaches to valuing biodiversity and  ecosystem  services, the economics of climate and environmental change, and the economics of urban ecological systems.Applications must consist of a cover letter, a current curriculum vitae, copies of recent publications, a statement of teaching philosophy/interests, a statement of research achievements and plans, and evidence of teaching effectiveness. Candidates must also arrange to have three letters of reference sent directly to the departmental contact: Dr. Monica E. Mulrennan
 Chair, Department of Geography, Planning and Environment
 Concordia University
 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada, H3G 1M8Email: monica.mulrennan@concordia.caWeb: http://www.concordia.ca/gpe
Subject to budgetary approval, we anticipate filling this position at the rank of Assistant Professor, to begin January 1st 2017. All applications should reach the department no later than October 1st 2016. Review of applications will begin immediately after this date and will continue until the position is filled. All inquiries about the position should be directed to Dr. Monica Mulrennan.All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadian citizens and permanent residents of Canada will be given priority. Concordia University is committed to employment equity.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFaculty of Arts and Science
            
                Faculty of Arts and Science
            Geography, Planning and Environment - Ecological EconomicsEmployment equityConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424