http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/about/jobs/tenure-track-appointments/indigenous-canadian-literature-and-culture.htmlThe Department of English at Concordia University in Montreal, Quebec invites applications for a tenure-stream appointment in Indigenous Canadian Literature and Culture. The appointment is at the rank of Assistant Professor; appointments at a higher rank may however be considered.  A doctorate in hand or imminent is necessary. Scholarly publications and university teaching experience are desirable. In addition to developing our undergraduate and graduate courses in Indigenous Literature, the candidate will contribute their area expertise throughout our Canadian Literature curriculum, teaching period, genre, and specialized courses across the field.  The candidate will participate in the department’s robust research milieu through, for example, supervision of Masters and Doctoral dissertations, and will enjoy opportunities to collaborate in a variety of relevant interdisciplinary programs and research centres. Applications should include a cover letter, curriculum vitae, teaching and research statements, a writing sample, evidence of teaching effectiveness and three letters of reference. Please submit electronic applications only. All applications should be sent to: Dr. Andre Furlani, Chair
Department of English
Concordia University
Chair.engl.fas@concordia.caInquiries may be directed to Dr. Furlani at Chair.engl.fas@concordia.ca. Subject to budgetary approval, the position begins on August 1, 2017. Review of applications will continue until the position is filled. Applications should reach the Department no later than December 12, 2016.Concordia University pledges itself to employment equity and fosters diversity; applicants are encouraged to describe how they may further our Department’s commitment to diversity.  All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadian citizens and permanent residents enjoy priority.  All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadian citizens and permanent residents of Canada will be given priority. Concordia University is committee to employment equity.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFaculty of Arts and Science
            
                Faculty of Arts and Science
            Tenure-Track position in Indigenous Canadian Literature and CultureEmployment equityConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424