http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/it/services/it-training.htmlConcordia provides IT training to faculty, staff and students. Training is delivered through instructor-lead workshops, online materials, demos and individual lessons. Training sessions can also be closed (arranged for groups at  time convenient for them) or customized (our standard courses with customization for a particular audience).
Workshops range from the basic to advanced levels in applications such as MS Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook), Dreamweaver, Photoshop, and Moodle Learning Management System.For more information and free training from Microsoft, visit http://office.microsoft.com/en-us/training/Faculty, staff and students
Standard courses are offered free of charge.
Custom solutions for specific group requirements are available for a fee. Options include the delivery of any of our current course offerings to your group only, or a customized class on an IITS supported application or topic your group would like to learn. To discuss pricing options, please contact iits.training@concordia.ca
Course registration is available 24/7
Courses are scheduled Monday to Friday between 9:00 A.M. and 5:00 P.M.
To browse the available courses or to register for a particular session, please visit our Availability and registration page.
Most workshops take place in the EN Annex training room at EN-214, however locations may vary so please make note of the location of the course you are attending.You must register for courses in advance and places are offered on a stricly first-come-first-served basis. Registrations can be made on our training and development registration page.
Once you have submitted your registration, you will receive email confirmation as well as a reminder email before the course date.
The IT training sessions often have waiting lists so it is important to advise us as soon as possible if you have to cancel. Workshop places can be cancelled by sending an email to iits.training@concordia.ca or calling 514-848-2424, Ext. 7688. The workshops are 2.5 hours maximum.If a workshop is fully booked you will be sent an email and your name will automatically be placed on a waiting list.
IT Training starts promptly at the advertised time. If participants are more than 15 minutes late it is at the discretion of the teacher as to whether they will be able to join the workshop.Participants are asked to fill out a feedback form at the end of the workshop. Your comments and suggestions are important and are used to improve future training offerings.  Page suggestions:© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityIT TrainingIT Services
            
                IT ServicesCourses offered - Browsing and registration
                
            
                
					
                    Where are the IT training workshops held?
                
            
                
					
                    How do I register for a workshop?
                
            
                
					
                    What happens once I submit my registration form?
                
            
                
					
                    What if I have to cancel?
                
            
                
					
                    How long are the workshops?
                
            
                
					
                    If a workshop is full, can I be added to a wait-list?
                
            
                
					
                    What happens if I show up late to a workshop?
                
            
                
					
                    How can I give feedback on a workshop?Who can use it?How much does it cost?How to get itService availabilityDocumentationFAQConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Was this page useful to you?