http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/it/services/live-event-support.htmlTechnical support for events held across both Concordia campuses is available from the Service Centres. Services include the setup, strike, and support of equipment booked through Hospitality Concordia or the Service Centres.
Anyone who has an event booked through Hospitality Concordia or the IITS Service Centres
Prices vary depending on the client classification, event, and services requested. Consult the Equipment Loan & Rental page for full details.Equipment Loan & Rental  This page describes the IITS service to supply live event support and audio visual equipment for free loan or paid rental to the university community and, where applicable, to outside clients.
Service Centre staff will set-up and take down the equipment for your event. In some cases, clients may be able to operate the equipment themselves (please contact your booking agent for more details).Changes to requests can be made up to 3 business days in advance for weekday events and up to 5 business days in advance for weekend events, by communicating with your booking agent.
A minimum of 3 hours is charged.No. Technician service for the duration of an event are charged separately and must be requested when the equipment is booked. A minimum of 3 hours is charged.
  Page suggestions:© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityLive event supportIT Services
            
                IT ServicesIITS equipment loan and rental guide
                
            
                
					
                    Do I need to hire a technician if I know how to operate the equipment myself?
                
            
                
					
                    How much notice do I need to modify my request for live event support?
                
            
                
					
                    What is the minimum duration I can request a technician?
                
            
                
					
                    Will I automatically have live event support for the duration of my event?Who can use it?How much does it cost?How to get itService availabilityDocumentationFAQSee alsoConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Was this page useful to you?