http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/releases/2014/11/13/national-bank-donates1milliontoconcordiasjohnmolsonschoolofbusin.htmlGift will support National Bank Initiative in Entrepreneurship and Family Business Montreal, November 13, 2014 — A major gift from Montreal-based National Bank will advance business research at Concordia University. The institution is donating $1 million to establish the National Bank Initiative in Entrepreneurship and Family Business at the John Molson School of Business (JMSB). The gift will propel research on entrepreneurship and family businesses and support graduate and undergraduate students.The gift will support a National Bank Entrepreneur-in-Residence who, in addition to guiding research projects, will deliver lectures and mentor students. The initiative will include a conference series with experts in the fields of entrepreneurship and family business.Focused research:The initiative will be led by a director who will oversee research and core activities and will benefit from an advisory board that will help shape activities and curriculum, coach students and approve research projects.
“We are deeply grateful for National Bank’s investment in the John Molson School of Business,” says Concordia President Alan Shepard. “This initiative will reinforce graduate and undergraduate studies at Concordia and further distinguish the Molson School.”“National Bank has a long tradition of promoting entrepreneurship and supporting young people. We firmly believe that developing talent is a key for communities to prosper and keep pace with our changing economy,” says Karen Leggett, BComm 90, National Bank’s executive vice-president of Marketing and Corporate Strategy. “Our donation to Concordia’s John Molson School of Business is yet one more way for us to tangibly support the next generation of entrepreneurs.” Family businesses in Canada:Family businesses tend to promote strong values and cultures. Yet almost half of Canada’s family enterprises expect to see an intergenerational transfer of ownership by 2017, according to a recent study by the Canadian Association of Family Enterprise. Family businesses are often distinguished by their entrepreneurial cultures and above-average market performances, which make them exceptional targets for research.Steve Harvey, dean of Concordia’s John Molson School of Business, says: “This important investment at JMSB gives our students access to superior learning tools, support systems and knowledgeable professionals whose shared experience truly reflects family enterprise in Canada.”About National Bank:Every year, through its donations and sponsorships program and the initiatives of its employees, National Bank supports hundreds of organizations across Canada. It is particularly committed to supporting health, education, arts and culture, and community outreach, with the goal of generating positive benefits for communities. To learn more, visit commitment.nationalbank.ca. Related links:·         Concordia University: concordia.ca·         John Molson School of Business: concordia.ca/jmsb·         National Bank: nbc.ca·         Canadian Association of Family Enterprise: cafecanada.caSources:Scott McCulloch
Senior Advisor, Communications
Advancement and Alumni Relations
Concordia University
Tel: 514-848-2424, ext. 3825
Cell phone: 514-513-8535
Email: scott.mcculloch@concordia.ca
Website: concordia.ca/alumni-friends Jean-François Lauzon
Advisor, Public Affairs
National Bank
Tel: 514-394-6097
Cell phone: 514-246-7304
Email: jeanfrancois.lauzon@bnc.ca
Website: nbc.caSearch for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityNational Bank donates $1 million to Concordia’s John Molson School of BusinessNews
            
                NewsSourceFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424