http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/about/jobs/tenure-track-appointments/opto-electric-photonic-nanomaterials.htmlThe Department of Physics and the Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry in the Faculty of Arts and Science at Concordia University are seeking to jointly hire an independent and motivated tenure-track faculty member working in the field of opto-electronic and/or photonic of nanomaterials. The ideal candidate will have experience with multidisciplinary research involving applied science or engineering, an outstanding publication record and experience in areas that could include, but are not limited to, opto-electronic nanomaterials and devices, quantum dots, nanowires, 2-dimensional materials and quantum materials with applications in advanced transistors, energy storage, NEMS/MEMS, photovoltaics and photonics.Qualified candidates will have a PhD in Chemistry, Physics, Engineering Physics, Chemical Engineering, or a closely related field and relevant postdoctoral experience. She/He will be expected to develop an independent research program, secure external funding and establish collaborations with the Centre for NanoScience Research and the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science at Concordia University. The candidate will be expected to teach at the undergraduate and graduate levels in both departments.Concordia University is a vibrant research and teaching environment, with state-of-the-art research facilities and many research centers. Concordia is located in Montreal, Canada which is a diverse and creative city, often ranked as offering one of the best quality of living in North America. Subject to budgetary approval, we anticipate filling this position at the rank of Assistant Professor; however, appointments at a higher rank will be considered. While the start date for this position is negotiable, all applications should be received by August 30th 2016 or until the position is filled. Applications must consist of a cover letter, a current curriculum vitae, copies of recent publications, a statement of teaching philosophy/interests, a five page outline of proposed research and a statement of previous multidisciplinary research accomplishments. Candidates must also arrange to have three letters of reference sent directly via email to:Prof. Alexandre Champagne, Chair         
Department of Physics
Concordia University
7141 Sherbrooke St. West, SP 367.05
Montreal, QC
H4B 1R6A.Champagne@concordia.ca
 http://www.concordia.ca/artsci/physicsandProf. Christine DeWolf, Chair
Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry
Concordia University
7141 Sherbrooke St. West, SP
Montreal, QC
H4B 1R6Christine.Dewolf@concordia.ca
 http://www.concordia.ca/artsci/chemistryAll qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadian citizens and permanent residents of Canada will be given priority. Concordia University is committed to Employment Equity and encourages applications from women, aboriginal peoples, visible minorities and persons with disabilities.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityOpto-Electronic and Photonic NanomaterialsFaculty of Arts and Science
            
                Faculty of Arts and Science
            Employment equityConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424