http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/physics/programs/graduate/physics-msc.htmlOffered by:
Department of Physics, Faculty of Arts & ScienceThe basic laws of physics are applied in advancements in many areas including modern medical and space-related technologies, climate research as well as energy generation and storage. As the study of physics continues to evolve through new discoveries, we need inquisitive minds to explore the connections between traditional and emerging research areas, including medical and nano-scale physics, and biophysics.The MSc in Physics provides you with broad degree training for you to investigate fundamental and applied concepts that reflect faculty research specializations. Our cross-listed faculty members are experts in fields as varied as bioengineering and chemistry, and contribute to an environment that stresses strong student-supervisor relationships. For example, in collaboration with the PERFORM Centre, biomedical physics-related projects include using different imaging technologies to improve medical diagnostics and to investigate the effects of exercise on aging.Benefit from cutting-edge research centres that promote interdisciplinary collaborations in nanoscience, and the molecular and life sciences. For example, projects currently underway at the Centre for NanoScience Research examine the optical properties of nanomaterials, the link between light-induced electron transfer and accompanying protonational reactions, and the structure-function relationships in photosynthetic pigment-protein complexes.Our MA students are looking at topics such as: Requirements for the DegreeAdmission Requirements. Applicants must have an honours degree, or its equivalent in Physics. Qualified applicants lacking prerequisite courses are required to take undergraduate courses (up to 12 credits) in addition to the regular graduate program. Applicants with deficiencies in their undergraduate preparation may be required to take a one-year qualifying program before admission to the MSc program.Your completed application will include:Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures. *Late applications may be considered, please contact the Program Director.CoursesAll courses are worth 3 credits each unless otherwise specified. The graduate courses offered by the Department of Physics fall into the following categories:PHYS 600-609 Topics in Quantum and High Energy Physics
 PHYS 630-639 Topics in Condensed Matter Physics
 PHYS 640-649 Topics in Theoretical Physics
 PHYS 670-679 Topics in Applied PhysicsTopics in Quantum and High Energy Physics (600-609)PHYS 601 Advanced Quantum Mechanics I (3 credits)
This course reviews the mathematical foundations of quantum mechanics, Heisenberg, Schroedinger, and interaction representations; time-dependent perturbation theory and the golden rule; collision theory, Born approximation, T-matrix and phase shifts; angular momentum theory: eigenvalues and eigenvectors, spherical harmonics, rotations and spin, additions theorems and their applications.
Note: Students who have received credit for PHYS 612 may not take this course for credit.PHYS 602 Advanced Quantum Mechanics II (3 credits)
The following applications are examined: non-relativistic theory - systems of identical particles, second quantization, Hartree-Fock theory, as well as path integral formulation of quantum mechanics; relativistic theory: Dirac and Klein-Gordon equations, positron theory, propogator theory and their applications; field quantization, radiative effects, Dirac and Majorana spinors, Noether’s theorem.
Note: Students who have received credit for PHYS 613 may not take this course for credit.PHYS 603 High Energy Physics (3 credits)
This course discusses symmetries and groups; antiparticles; electrodynamics of spinless particles, the Dirac equation and its implications for the electrodynamics of spin 1/2 particles. A general discussion of loops, renormalization and running coupling constants, hadronic structure and partons, is used to introduce the principles of Quantum Chromodynamics and Electroweak Interactions. The course concludes with an exposition of gauge symmetries, the Weinberg-Salam model, and Grand Unification.
Note: Students who have received credit for PHYS 616 may not take this course for credit.PHYS 609 Selected Topics in Quantum or High Energy Physics (3 credits)
This course reflects the research interests of the physics faculty in quantum or high energy physics and/or those of the graduate students working with them.
Note: Students who have taken the same topic under PHYS 615, PHYS 618 or PHYS 619 may not take this course for credit.Topics in Condensed Matter Physics (630-639)PHYS 636 Condensed Matter Physics I (3 credits)
Review of electron levels in periodic potentials, various band-structure methods, Thomas-Fermi and Hartree-Fock theories, screening, anharmonic effects crystals, inhomogeneous semiconductors, p-n junctions, transistors. Dielectric properties of insulators, ferroelectric materials. Defects in crystals. Magnetic ordering, paramagnetism, diamagnetism, ferromagnetism, phase transitions, superconductivity.PHYS 637 Condensed Matter Physics II (3 credits)
This course provides a review of the phonon modes and electron band structure of crystals. It covers a selection of modern quantum condensed‑matter topics which may include Hartree‑Fock, mesoscopic quantum transport theory (quantum dots, 1D systems, 2D systems), superconductivity, the quantum Hall effects, weak localization, and current research topics. Students further develop an in-depth knowledge of the course material through an individual project.PHYS 639 Selected Topics in Condensed Matter Physics (3 credits)
This course reflects the research interests of the physics faculty in condensed matter physics and/or those of the graduate students working with them.
Note: Students who have received credit for PHYS 635 may not take this course for credit.Topics in Theoretical Physics (640-649)PHYS 642 Statistical Physics (3 credits)
This course covers statistical concepts, probability, Gaussian probability distribution, statistical ensemble, macrostates and microstates, thermodynamic probability, statistical thermodynamics, reversible and irreversible processes, entropy, thermodynamic laws and statistical relations, partition functions, Maxwell’s distribution, phase transformation, Maxwell-Boltzmann, Bose-Einstein and Fermi-Dirac statistics, quantum statistics in the classical limit, black-body radiation, conduction electrons in metals, interacting particle system, lattice vibrations, virial coefficients, Weiss molecular field approximation.
Note: Students who have received credit for PHYS 654 may not take this course for credit.PHYS 644 Advanced Classical Mechanics and Relativity (3 credits)
This course covers generalized coordinates, Lagrange’s equations, method of Lagrange multipliers, variational formulation, Hamilton’s equations of motion, canonical transformations, Hamilton-Jacobi theory, special theory of relativity, Einstein’s axioms, Lorentz transformations, form invariance and tensors, four-vectors, gravity.
Note: Students who have received credit for PHYS 658 may not take this course for credit.PHYS 646 Electrodynamics (3 credits)
This course covers the electrostatic boundary-value problem with Green’s function, Maxwell’s equations, energy-momentum tensor, guided waves, dielectric wave-guides, fibre optics, radiation static field, multipole radiation, velocity and acceleration field, Larmor’s formula, relativistic generalization, radiating systems, linear antenna, aperture in wave guide, scattering, Thompson scattering, Bremsstrahlung, Abraham-Lorentz equation, Breit-Wigner formula, Green’s function for Helmholtz’s equation. Noether’s theorem.PHYS 648 Non Linear Waves (3 credits)
Linear stability analysis and limitations, modulated waves and nonlinear dispersion relations, Korteweg-de Vries, sine-Gordon, and nonlinear Schrödinger equations. Hydro-dynamic, transmission-line, mechanical, lattice, and optical solitions. Applications in optical fibres, Josephson junction arrays. Inverse scattering method, conservation laws.PHYS 649 Selected Topics in Theoretical Physics (3 credits)
This course reflects the research interests of the Physics faculty in theoretical physics and/or those of the graduate students working with them.Topics in Applied Physics (670 - 679)PHYS 679 Selected Topics in Applied Physics (3 credits)
This course reflects the research interests of the Physics faculty in Applied Physics and/or those of the graduate students working with them.Seminar, Thesis, and Comprehensive ExaminationPHYS 760 MSc Seminar on Selected Topics (3 credits)
Students must give one seminar in the field of their research. In addition, full time students must participate in all seminars given in the department, and part time students must attend, during their studies, the same number of seminars that are normally given during the minimum residence requirement for full time students. The course in evaluated on a pass/fail basis. No substitution is permitted.PHYS 790 Master’s Research and Thesis (30 credits)PHYS 861 Doctoral Seminar on Selected Topics I (3 credits)
Students must present one pedagogical seminar on a topic from physics to an advanced-level undergraduate student audience. This course is evaluated on a pass/fail basis. No substitution is permitted.PHYS 862 Doctoral Seminar on Selected Topics II (3 credits)
Students must present one seminar in their current research area to a critical audience. In addition, students are required to attend and participate in all departmental seminars. This course is evaluated on a pass/fail basis. No substitution is permitted.PHYS 870 Comprehensive Examination and Research Proposal (6 credits)PHYS 890 Doctoral Research and Thesis (69 credits)
Note: Students admitted prior to 1997-98 should register for PHYS 850 (70 credits). Students admitted after summer 1997 will register for PHYS 850 (66 credits).Each admitted student receives a minimum of $15,500 in annual support without any additional fellowship. Additional merit-based awards are available in limited numbers.Competition-based, partial tuition fee remission awards are available to international students once in the program.Please also consult Concordia’s graduate funding page and Financial Aid and Awards.Department research activities are collaborative. Graduate students benefit from a robust cadre of faculty research expertise. Areas of department researcher specialization include:Prospective graduate students must be selected by one or two (in case of joint supervision) faculty member(s) as a condition for final admission. Upon admission the research supervisor(s) and the department accept the responsibility for ensuring and arranging the financial support for the student for at least two years contingent upon satisfactory performance.A Supervisory Committee is appointed for each student. This committee consists of two faculty members in the department and the research supervisor(s). The committee is responsible for monitoring the student’s academic progress and reports to the Graduate Program Committee. See what our students are working on. Review an inspiring list of thesis topics.An MSc in Physics prepares you for careers in various industries, including photonics, opto-electronics, semiconductors, biomedical and biophysics, advanced materials, nanotechnology, energy production, flight simulation, aeronautics, space science, and engineering. You’ll also be qualified for certain governmental and teaching positions. Physics graduates are also sought by employers for non-technical positions such as those in law, administration, business, journalism, financial analysis and publishing.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityPhysics (MSc)Department of Physics
            
                Department of Physics
            Program detailsKey resourcesJoin the conversationDegree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application process
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Funding
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty research interests
                
            
                
					
                    Finding your supervisor
                
            
                
					
                    Emerging ideas – student projects
                
            
                
					
                    Your professional futureWhy pursue a master’s in Physics?Master of Science (MSc)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424