http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/physics/programs/undergraduate/physics-bsc.htmlStudying Physics sends you on a journey to the end of the universe or into the centre of an atom. When you study the science of energy and matter, you examine the dynamics of a relationship that has kept great thinkers busy for millennia. Today physicists build lasers, design medical imaging machines and develop applications for nanotechnology. So if you’re ready, sharpen your reasoning skills and open your mind — physics is a discipline that demands as much curiosity as it does strength in mathematics.As a Physics student, you’ll choose the Physics option, or examine the role of physics in the life sciences in the Biophysics option. You’ll receive a thorough foundation in all branches of physics, including mathematics, classical mechanics, electricity and magnetism, waves and optics, quantum mechanics and modern and theoretical physics.Graduates leave the program with the knowledge and creative thinking skills required for graduate studies or a career in the pure or life sciences.A Bachelor of Science degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background.Options:*Admission is to the major or specializations. Students may apply to honours after 24 program credits.See full degree requirements in the undergraduate calendar.
Minimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
 Sample classes include:
Consult the undergraduate calendar for a complete list of current courses, view suggested class schedules or see our core program on the Physics website.Many Physics alumni pursue graduate studies and work at the forefront of technological innovation. They have established careers in a variety of scientific fields that include:Learn more about your career options.
The Co-op program gives you the chance to complete paid work terms that last 12 to 16 weeks. As a Co-op student, you will work for firms where you may:Students interested in applying for the Physics co-op should refer to section 24 of the Undergraduate Calendar where a full description of the admission requirements is provided.Academic content is very similar to that of the regular programs, with some specific recommendations for courses to improve the students' job skills. While it is hoped that most of the positions will be in the Montreal area, students must be prepared to work in other parts of Canada.Students are supervised personally and must meet the requirements specified by the Faculty of Arts and Science and the Institute for Co-operative Education in order to continue their studies in the co-op format.Liaison between the student, the employers, and the Institute for Co-operative Education is provided by the Physics co-op committee, which includes the student's advisors.Read more about the Physics co-op program.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityPhysics (BSc)Department of Physics
            
                Department of Physics
            Key resourcesJoin the conversationDegree options
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    After your degree
                
            
                
					
                    Co-op programWhy study Physics?Program DetailsBachelor of Science (BSc)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Cegep StudentsMinimum Cut-off Averages