http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2011/10/20/policy-on-harassment-frequently-asked-questions.htmlConcordia’s Policy on Harassment, Sexual Harassment and Psychological Harassment (HR-38)Frequently Asked QuestionsWhat constitutes harassment and what does it look like? Harassment is all forms of repeated or ongoing unwelcome, vexatious conduct, including but not limited to, sexual harassment, psychological harassment or harassment based on a ground prohibited by law (please consult article 28 of the Code of Rights and Responsibilities).    A single, serious incidence of such behavior may constitute harassment if it has the same consequences and if it produces a lasting harmful effect on the member.  Harassment has the effect or purpose of unreasonably interfering with a member's right to pursue his/her work, study or other activities related to university life in a safe and civil manner or of creating an intimidating or hostile environment for such activities.What should I do if I think I am being harassed? It is important to take action promptly so that the undesired conduct stops and does not happen again. Such steps could include speaking to the person directly who is harassing you, identifying the behavior and asking them to immediately stop and correct it.  Other actions could include discussing the situation with a manager or supervisor. You may also wish to discuss the situation and seek advice from designated individuals within the university who specifically deal with concerns of harassment.   Where can I go if I think I am being harassed? You may go to the Department of Human Resources, specifically the Employment and Organizational Effectiveness unit or Employee and Labour Relations unit, or a union representative if applicable. At any time you may also seek assistance or advice from the advisor on rights and responsibilities (referred to as the advisor in the remainder of this document). The advisor can provide information, give advice and support, explain options for resolving an issue, and help decide on a course of action. Due process and confidentiality will be observed.     Why was this policy created? The university is committed to safeguarding a healthy environment for its members and is committed to the values of civility, equity, respect, non-discrimination and an appreciation of diversity. Concordia’s Policy on Harassment, Sexual Harassment and Psychological Harassment (HR-38) guides the university's practice and helps ensure our compliance with laws, regulations and government requirements concerning harassment.   It is imperative that situations of harassment be dealt with and remedied as soon as possible and that recurrences are prevented. The policy incorporates prevention and education as well as support and redress when harassment violations occur.  To whom does this policy apply?  This policy (HR-38) applies to all staff, faculty members, and members of the administration of the university. The policy does not replace or supersede any applicable provisions set out in any collective or employee agreement.  What if I am a student?   Any member of the university (student, staff or faculty member) who has a concern regarding the behaviour of a staff or faculty member that may constitute a form of harassment is strongly encouraged to consult the advisor.   The advisor can assist with informal dispute resolution procedures or with a formal resolution process, as described in the Code of Rights and Responsibilities.  What if I am being harassed by a student? The Code of Rights and Responsibilities outlines both informal and formal processes that are available to deal with complaints against students. People are strongly encouraged to consult the advisor.  When should I seek assistance or make a complaint? It is recommended that attempts to resolve any allegations of harassment take place as soon as possible. The sooner you seek advice or assistance, the simpler it may be to resolve a conflict. If it is necessary to file a formal complaint, the advisor can inform the complainant of any time delays as specified in the code or in the respondent’s collective agreement.   In matters of psychological harassment, complaints should be filed within 90 days of the last incident.  What are the different resolution options and how do I know which one is best for me to pursue? The advisor can help you evaluate your options and make an informed choice of what steps to take. Responses may range from the use of informal dispute resolution methods to formal procedures for adjudicating complaints. In most cases informal resolution is both possible and desirable. If the situation warrants, the advisor can guide you on how to proceed with a formal complaint.  What if I do not want to file a formal complaint but I want some help or assistance? Your supervisor, the Department of Human Resources, or the advisor on rights and responsibilities may be able to assist. Consultations with the advisor are confidential. You do not have to file a complaint in order to get information or advice. Sometimes trying different steps may restore harmony, collegiality and cooperation between members and could preempt the need for a formal complaint.  If I decide to make a formal complaint, what happens then?  The allegation(s) of harassment will be investigated. The investigator will take the necessary steps to resolve the matter in such a manner as to respect the principles of natural justice and the procedures of any collective or employee agreement or university policy, which may apply.  Upon the completion of the investigation, if the complaint is founded, disciplinary measuresmay be imposed or a remedial action taken, as permitted by the relevant collective or employee agreement or university policy.  How can I learn more about the policy? The university will issue periodic communications to all students, staff, and faculty as a means to prevent harassment. Training will be available to managers and supervisors. Please consult the learning and development calendar for the next available session at:   http://www.concordia.ca/hr/training-development/calendar/   You may also contact the Office of Rights and Responsibilities and/or the Department of Human Resources.  Office of Rights and Responsibilities In person:  Room GM-1120, Guy-Metro Building (1550 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.) Telephone: 514-848-2424, ext. 8659 Email: rights@concordia.ca  Department of Human Resources Department of Human Resources In person: Room FB 1130 (11th Floor), Faubourg Tower, 1250 Guy Street  Email:  www.concordia.ca/hr/contact/Related link:•  "Dealing with harassment" - NOW, October 20, 2011Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityPolicy on Harassment: Frequently Asked QuestionsNews
            
                NewsFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424