http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/students/academic-integrity/procedures.htmlIf an academic offence has been committed, the professor, or invigilator in the case of exam related offences, will submit an incident report to the Dean of the faculty, or to the Dean's designate. In the faculty of Arts and Science, incident reports come to the Code Administrator, Dr. Mebs Kanji.According to the Acadmic Code of Conduct, professors cannot discuss the incident with the student. They can inform the student that an incident report has been submitted.This is the procedure followed after receiving the incident report:Based on all the information presented in the incident report and at the interview, the Code Administrator makes a decision regarding the charge. If the charge is upheld, a sanction will be levied. In some instances, the case may be referred directly to the Academic Hearing Panel. If the case is dismissed, all materials relating to the incident will be destroyed, and the professor will be instructed to grade the assignment/paper/exam.In preparing for the interview, the Code Administrator may speak with the person who submitted the incident report, and may request additional information such as course and assignment outlines, handouts, etc. After the interview, some further investigation may be conducted before a decision is reached. For example, if the student says that they have never written a research paper before, the courses and assignments previously taken are reviewed.Be assured that the Code Administrator will listen carefully to what you have to say, and will review all materials and information that you bring to support your case.It is your responsibility to be prepared for the interview. Review the documents that are sent to you.Consult with a student advocate who can offer you advice on how to prepare for the interview and how best to present your case (see Article 40 of the Academic Code of Conduct).Please note that consulting with someone is not an admission of guilt. It means that you are making best use of the resources available to you. It is your responsibility to be prepared as best you can, and it is the Code Administrator's responsibility to give you a fair hearing and to make a fair decision.For assistance If you have any questions about the form or the process, feel free to contact Dr. Mebs Kanji, Code Administrator (ext 2599) , or Ms. Sandra Moore, Office Assistant (ext. 2086).Dr. Mebs Kanji (Political Science) is responsible for interviewing undergraduate students under the Academic Code of Conduct, making the decisions pertaining to these interviews and attending the relevant Academic Hearing Panel cases.He liaises with the Associate Dean, Student Academic Services on Code issues.Reach the administrator at: code.administrator@artsci.concordia.ca or at: Mebs.Kanji@concordia.ca  © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityProceduresFaculty of Arts and Science
            
                Faculty of Arts and Science
            Related LinksProceduresStudents: Preparing for the interview Download the appropriate formCode AdministratorConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424