http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2013/06/03/recognizing-young-research-innovators.htmlThe Petro-Canada Young Innovator Awards recognize outstanding emerging faculty members whose research is innovative, strengthens the learning environment within their department, and has the potential to be of significance to society.  Each award, made possible by a generous endowment from Suncor Energy, comes with a $10,000 research grant.  “The quality of the research projects counts for a large part of the evaluation,” Carr said during his introduction. “Each of these researchers has a fascinating project.”  Pablo BianucciDepartment of Physics, Faculty of Arts and Science Technology, Industry and the Environment Strategic Research Cluster  Bianucci’s research looks at nanomaterials, and how they can be used to process information faster while using less power. Within his research group in the Department of Physics, Bianucci supervises graduate students who are helping him research optical microresonators, microscopic structures that can maintain light confined within them.  “We interrogate them using optical fibres (that have been tapered to a diameter comparable to the wavelength of near-infrared light) and free-space lasers.”  Thanh Dang-VuDepartment of Exercise Science, Faculty of Arts and Science The Person and Society Strategic Research Cluster  Dang-Vu, a member of Concordia’s Center for Studies in Behavioral Neurobiology, is currently researching the interface between neuroimaging, sleep and neurology, in order to investigate the neural correlates of spontaneous brain activity and consciousness.   In his biography, Dang-Vu states that he is “particularly interested in the mechanisms and functions of brain rhythms during sleep. These neural oscillations (sleep spindles, slow waves) organize brain activity during sleep and modulate important functional properties of sleep.”  Navneet VidyarthiDepartment of Decision Sciences and Management Information Systems, John Molson School of Business The Person and Society Strategic Research Cluster  Vidyarthi broadly describes his research interests as “strategic design and tactical planning in logistics and supply chain management.” His current research looks at the logistics of providing humanitarian aid during natural disasters. A PhD graduate from the University of Waterloo, Vidyarthi joined Concordia’s John Molson School of Business in July 2008.Read about other award winners from the May 30 Celebration of Excellence (NOW, June 3, 2013).  Related links: •    Pablo Bianucci •    Thanh Dang-Vu •    Navneet Vidyarthi •    Office of Research •    Vice-President, Research and Graduate StudiesSearch for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityRecognizing young research innovatorsDepartment of Physics
            
                Department of Physics
            Related TopicsFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424