http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2015/02/18/senate-approves-revisions-to-academic-code-of-conduct.htmlIn his president’s report to Senate on February 13, Alan Shepard announced that Paul Shrivastava has been appointed executive director of Future Earth, a prestigious new United Nations program for global sustainability.He is currently the David O’Brien Distinguished Professor of Sustainable Enterprise at the John Molson School of Business. With Shrivastava’s appointment, Montreal has now become the international headquarters of Future Earth and the global secretariat will be located at Concordia’s downtown campus. Read more.Shepard also spoke about the implementation of the new Student Information System (SIS), which went live on January 26. Campus Solutions replaces a 32-year-old legacy system and supports virtually all student-related services, processes and business functions at the university. The president warmly thanked the team of Concordians who continue to go the extra mile to ensure the timely and successful delivery of this key system.Bradley Tucker, associate vice-president of Registrarial Services, also thanked the SIS team, acknowledging the challenges of implementing such a far-reaching new system. He also provided an overview of some of the outstanding issues currently being addressed, noting that additional training sessions are being offered for faculty members and department administrators. Groups of student peer helpers, called the SIS HELP brigade, are stationed around the university to help students navigate the new system.A review committee, chaired by Me Melodie Sullivan, legal counsel for Student and Administrative Affairs and composed of faculty and student representatives, conducted a comprehensive review of the Academic Code of Conduct from January 2012 to August 2014. Main university policies are normally reviewed every five years.Senate approved revisions to the Academic Code of Conduct, as recommended by the review committee following consultations with each Faculty Council. These changes, which take effect in May 2015 for the summer 2015 (2015/1) term, include rewriting the preamble to emphasize the values of the university with respect to academic work and, in particular, the importance of academic integrity; re-ordering articles so they follow the same procedural order as the process experienced by a student charged under the code; and changes to Articles 18 and 25.Article 18 highlights that intent is an important and relevant element when determining the appropriate sanction when a charge of academic misconduct is upheld. Article 25 clarifies that suspension, in addition to explusion, is a sanction that the provost may use when a student is charged with a second offence.Catherine Bolton, vice-provost of Teaching and Learning, said the review committee also made additional recommendations that will be implemented over the coming months. This includes producing a user-friendly guide and a flowchart to make it easier for students to better understand the code and online material on guidelines and best practices for dissemination to the university community.Senators approved a revision to the number of terms for undergraduate and graduate students serving on Senate. With the change, the term limit for student senators changes from two one-year terms to three one-year terms.Benoit-Antoine Bacon, provost and vice-president of Academic Affairs, confirmed the continuation of the Concordia Undergraduate Student Research Awards program for a third year. The program provides funding for 75 undergraduate students to gain hands-on research experience at Concordia during the summer months. The goal is to stimulate interest in research, participatory research, or research-creation work that will complement undergraduate coursework and enhance preparation for graduate studies or research-related careers. Deputy Provost Lisa Ostiguy updated senators on changes that have occurred in Student and Enrolment Services since the July 2013 move of the portfolio to the Office of the Provost. This shift was made to offer more integration and alignment with the academic sector, including enrolment and recruitment.The International Students Office and Financial Aid and Awards Office now report to Bradley Tucker, associate vice-president of Registrarial Services. Health Services, Counselling and Development as well as the Access Centre for Students with Disabilities are being integrated to create one unit focused on campus wellness and support. The role of the Dean of Students has been expanded to include responsibilities for the Concordia University Parents Centre, Sexual Assault Resource Centre and Aboriginal Student Resource Centre. Ostiguy also highlighted some exciting initiatives to promote student success. Various services and offerings in Faculties, departments and Student and Enrolment Services have been integrated to provide a more comprehensive approach to supporting students.A Student Success Centre has been created, which includes three centres: math, writing and science; a first-year students program; next-generation skills; student award programs; and  career support, as a result of moving the Career and Planning Services (CAPS)  into the centre. Laura Mitchell joins Concordia in April as the centre’s new director and Joanne Locke has been appointed interim director.Shepard said work is progressing on the strategic directions initiative, a process being led by the Strategic Directions Advisory Committee. Activities to engage faculty, staff and student in answering the question, “What’s next for Concordia?” include a series of Idea Cafés; Idea Groups, which are exploring seven key strategic themes; and the speaker series, The Future of the University and the Future of Learning.
Missed our first event of the speaker series, The Future of the University and the Future of Learning? You can watch a video interview with David Ward on why universities should innovate.On March 4, the speaker series will address the question, “What will future students want and need from universities?” The session will be led by Carl Amrhein, former provost of the University of Alberta and Diana MacKay, executive director of Education, Skills and Immigration with The Conference Board of Canada. On March 10, Elizabeth Cannon, president of the University of Calgary, will reflect on the question “How can universities go from good to great?”Advance registration is required.  
        Future Earth finds a home at Concordia
    
        7 things you need to know about Idea Groups 
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversitySenate approves revisions to Academic Code of ConductNews
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsFuture Earth appoints Paul Shrivastava as executive directorSuccessful Student Information System (SIS) goes liveRevisions to Academic Code of Conduct approvedChange in terms for student senators approvedUpdate on the Academic PlanStrategic directions initiative in high gearFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424