http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2015/05/27/senate-board-notes-may-2015.htmlRead the Board notes.Read the Senate notes.
 At its meeting on May 20, Concordia’s Board of Governors approved the university’s operating, capital and cash budgets for the 2015-16 financial year.President Alan Shepard noted the operating budget aims to preserve the university’s academic mission in a tight and challenging fiscal environment. For 2015-16, the university is projecting total revenues of $387 million and total expenses of $395.2 million, resulting in a deficit of $8.2 million.Read the president’s message on the budget.In his report, Shepard addressed the ongoing news coverage of sexual harassment and assault on university campuses across North America. Last fall, he proactively called for a review of Concordia’s policies, led by Lisa Ostiguy, deputy provost. Concordia, one of only nine of Canada’s 78 universities to have special policies to deal with sexual violence as of November 2014, has been praised as a leader on the matter. The president said he is currently reviewing Ostiguy’s report and recommendations, and changes will be made wherever necessary.Shepard also noted the success of his recent trip to Asia, where he met with the Chinese Academy of Sciences and took part in opening ceremonies of the Karl Polanyi Institute Asia alongside the mayor of Seoul.He also pointed to a number of recent research funding successes, including a two-year, $1.8-million project funded by the Consortium for Aerospace Research and Innovation in Canada. The president also highlighted a groundbreaking new paper co-authored by Department of Biology Professor Vincent Martin in Nature Chemical Biology. The authors have codified a method to use yeast to convert sugar to alkaloids — plant-derived compounds such as codeine and morphine, naturally produced in the opium poppy.Finally, in reviewing highlights of the year, Shepard noted that the university placed in the Times Higher Education’s “Top 100 Under 50,” a global ranking of top universities under 50 years old.The goal of the strategic directions initiative, which recently completed its first phase, was to get students, faculty and staff thinking and talking about what Concordia wants and needs to do in order to thrive in the decade ahead. Phase one activities included the speaker series, The Future of the University and the Future of Learning, which welcomed thought leaders from across North America; consultations with students, faculty and staff through Idea Cafés and other activities; and work by seven subject-specific groups. A draft document was presented to Senate on May 15, and following a discussion and recommendations for minor changes, Senate approved a slightly revised document. The nine directions are: Double our research; Teach for tomorrow; Get your hands dirty; Mix it up; Experiment boldly; Grow smartly; Embrace the city, embrace the world; Go beyond; and Take pride.The next step is for the document to be discussed by the Board of Governors at its June meeting for validation. The second phase begins this fall, when units will undertake more detailed action planning, including setting objectives aligned with the new strategic directions.Read the document.The Board approved a decision made by Senate at its April 17 meeting to discontinue Concordia’s School of Extended Learning (SEL). The Centre for Continuing Education has been given the mandate to take over some of SEL’s activities and to expand and revitalize continuing education at Concordia by reaching out to new populations of learners.Isabelle Dunnigan, most recently the director of Development of Continuing Education at the Université de Sherbrooke, was appointed Concordia’s new director of the Centre for Continuing Education. Her five-year term begins June 1.Read more about Isabelle Dunnigan.Rebecca Taylor Duclos joins Concordia as dean of the Faculty of Fine Arts for a five-year mandate that begins on August 1.  She returns to Montreal from the United States, where she was dean of Graduate Studies at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago.“Rebecca is part of our family and I am honoured to welcome her back to Concordia in a key leadership role,” said Benoit-Antoine Bacon, provost and vice-president of Academic Affairs. “Her international experience and demonstrated leadership abilities, as well as her collegial approach based on community building, made her the perfect candidate.”Duclos was dean of Graduate Studies at the renowned School of the Art Institute of Chicago, where she also had an appointment as professor of Visual and Critical Studies.She holds a PhD in Art History and Visual Studies from the University of Manchester, and a Master of Museum Studies from the University of Toronto.Read more about Rebecca Taylor DuclosThe Board approved two new fee levies that students voted in April to implement. A $2.50 levy for graduate students for the fall and winter terms every year will support the Hive Café Solidarity Co-operative, granting students full membership privileges. All Faculty of Fine Arts undergraduate students will pay $0.11 per credit to support the restructuring and improved functionality of Café X. Both levies take effect in fall 2015.The following appointments to the Board were announced at the May 20 meeting:The appointment of the undergraduate student representative, the alternate member and one other external member will be made at the June Board meeting. At Senate’s last meeting for the academic year on May 15, President Alan Shepard presented a revised draft document outlining nine broad directions to guide Concordia’s development.The document is the result of the first phase of the strategic directions initiative launched in mid-January. The goal was to get students, faculty and staff thinking and talking about what Concordia wants and needs to be in order to thrive in the decade ahead.Phase one activities included the speaker series, The Future of the University and the Future of Learning, which welcomed thought leaders from across North America; consultations with students, faculty and staff through Idea Cafés and other activities; and work by seven subject-specific groups. A Strategic Directions Advisory Committee was established to guide the initiative. In drafting the document, there was a deliberate effort to keep it brief, use accessible language, and develop something that was both aspirational and authentic, said Shepard.He noted there was a strong positive response to the call to “take pride.”  “Get your hands dirty” also generated much comment, affirming the results of a student poll that identified experiential learning as a clear priority.Following discussion, Senate approved a slightly revised document.  The nine directions are:The document will be presented to the Board of Governors in June for validation. The second phase begins this fall when Faculties and units will undertake more detailed action planning, including setting objectives aligned with the new directions.In his remarks to Senate, the president thanked Senators for their work during the past academic year, noting this was the last meeting for Catherine Wild, dean of the Faculty of Fine Arts, and Brian Lewis, dean of the School of Extended Learning. He thanked them for their contributions to the university.Shepard said 2014-15 has been a good year, despite the ongoing challenging fiscal environment. For example, the university experienced its best year ever for federal and Quebec research funding awards. It also saw an increase in gifts by individual donors, especially by alumni, and it was the strongest year yet for admissions. Finally, the university placed in the Times Higher Education’s “Top 100 Under 50,” a global ranking of top universities under 50 years old.Honorary degrees are normally conferred during the regular convocation ceremonies in the spring and fall. In some cases, the honorand is unable to attend the ceremony. Senate approved the motion that will allow the university to award an honorary doctorate to a deserving individual at other times throughout the year, not only during convocation.University Ombudsperson Kristen Robillard presented the annual report from the Ombuds Office, now in its 35th year. The office, which reports directly to the board, handled 471 cases last year. Most often, the office provides students and employees with information, advice and referrals.In her presentation, Robillard concentrated on the annual recommendations. She said the office continues to advocate that the university “develop and implement a plan to improve the coherence and quality of advising, in particular for first-year students, to help them understand and achieve their educational objectives.”The office is also encouraging the development of a validated course evaluation questionnaire for use across the university. It should include a core set of questions asked in all courses, plus others specific to individual courses.
Find out more about the nine broad directions to guide Concordia’s future. 
        President unveils draft strategic directions
    
        Beyond the poppy: a new method of opium production
    
        Accomplished scholar and academic leader Rebecca Taylor Duclos appointed dean of the Faculty of Fine Arts
    
        Isabel Dunnigan assumes a pivotal role as the new director of Concordia’s Centre for Continuing Education 
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversitySenate approves strategic directionsNews
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsBoard approves 2015-16 operating budgetSenate approves strategic directions for ConcordiaPresident’s Report to the BoardStrategic DirectionsRestructuring of Continuing EducationRebecca Taylor Duclos appointed new dean of Fine ArtsNew student fee leviesNew Board appointmentsPresident’s remarksHonorary degree guidelines amendedOmbuds Office annual reportFind an expertDraft strategic directions document presentedOmbudsperson presents annual report at the final Senate meeting of the yearConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424