http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/about/jobs/tenure-track-appointments/tenure-track-position-in-legal-sociology-crime-justice-methodology-theory.htmlThe Department of Sociology and Anthropology at Concordia University in Montreal, Quebec, invites applications for a tenure-track position in the area of Legal sociology, Crime and Justice. The position requires a strong research dossier in this area, the ability to teach sociological methods or theory at the graduate and undergraduate level, including core courses in methodology or theory, and the ability to contribute to the Law and Society Minor. Knowledge of the French language is an asset. A PhD in Sociology or a related discipline is required at time of appointment.Applications must consist of a cover letter, a current curriculum vitae, copies of recent publications, statement of teaching philosophy/interests, a statement of research achievements, and evidence of teaching effectiveness. Candidates must also arrange to have three letters of reference sent directly to the departmental contact.Dr. Danielle Gauvreau, Chair & Professor
Department of Sociology and Anthropology
1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8chair.socanth.fas@concordia.casocianth.concordia.caSubject to budgetary approval, we anticipate filling this position, normally at the rank of Assistant Professor, for August 1, 2017. Review of applications will begin immediately and will continue until the position has been filled. All applications should reach the department no later than Monday, December 12, 2016. All inquiries about the position should be directed to Dr. Danielle Gauvreau (chair.socanth.fas@concordia.ca)For additional information, please visit our website at http://www.concordia.ca/artsci/about/jobs.htmlAll qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadian citizens and permanent residents of Canada will be given priority. Concordia University is committed to employment equity.All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadian citizens and permanent residents of Canada will be given priority. Concordia University is committed to employment equity.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFaculty of Arts and Science
            
                Faculty of Arts and Science
            Tenure Track Position in Legal Sociology, Crime and Justice, Methodology/TheoryEmployment equityConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424