http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/about/jobs/tenure-track-appointments/tenure-track-position-in-womens-studies.htmlThe Simone de Beauvoir Institute at Concordia University in Montreal, Quebec invites applications for a position in Feminism and Law and Society. This internationally known institute offers four undergraduate programs in the field of Women's Studies (Major, Minor, Certificate, and Specialization). Applications are encouraged from those whose scholarship critically addresses questions of feminism in relation to law and society with a research agenda that crosscuts one of the following areas: human rights, environmental issues, resistance to the state, political economy, disability studies, technology, or social justice. Bilingualism (French/English) is required. The successful candidate should have a completed PhD, teaching experience in the field, and a record of scholarly publications.The SdBI is committed to employment equity and practices of accessibility as an ongoing process. Women, Aboriginal Peoples, visible minorities, ethnic minorities, persons with disabilities, and members of other historically marginalized communities are encouraged to apply. When candidates do not differ significantly in merit, and one such candidate belongs to an underrepresented group, Employment Equity requires that the member in this group will be selected and appropriate accessibility and retention considerations will be arranged as they arise.The application should consist of a cover letter, a current curriculum vitae, evidence of teaching effectiveness, and a statement of teaching philosophy and research interests. Candidates should indicate whether they have complete proficiency in written and spoken French and English in their cover letter. Candidates should also arrange for three letters of reference to be sent directly to Kimberley Manning:  SDBI@algol.concordia.ca, with “tenure-track position” in the subject heading.The hiring committee will begin to review applications after December 12, 2016.Dr. Kimberley Manning
Principal
Simone de Beauvoir Institute
Concordia University
1455 de Maisonneuve West
Montreal
H3G 1M8All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadian citizens and permanent residents of Canada will be given priority. Concordia University is committed to employment equity.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFaculty of Arts and Science
            
                Faculty of Arts and Science
            Tenure-Track Position in Women's Studies at the level of Assistant ProfessorEmployment equityConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424