http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/about/jobs/tenure-track-appointments/tenure-track-position-in-algebra-number-theory.htmlThe Department of Mathematics and Statistics at Concordia University in Montreal, Quebec invites applications for one tenure-track position in the fields of Algebra and Number Theory.  Candidates in any area are encouraged to apply; however, preference will be given to those in the areas of Arithmetic Geometry, Analytic and Algebraic Number Theory.  Applicants should have a PhD degree, a strong research record, and demonstrated interest/experience in teaching both at the undergraduate and graduate levels.   Applications must consist of a cover letter, a current curriculum vitae, copies of recent publications indicating the candidate’s role in the publication, a statement of teaching philosophy/interests, evidence of teaching effectiveness, and a research statement that describes past achievements, expertise and future goals. Candidates must also arrange to have three letters of reference sent directly to:Dr. Yogendra P. Chaubey, Chair
Department of Mathematics and Statistics
Concordia University
1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd.
Montreal, Quebec   H3G 1M8
Canadachair.mathstat@concordia.cahttp://www.concordia.ca/artsci/math-stats.htmlSubject to budgetary approval, we anticipate filling this position, normally at the rank of Assistant Professor, for August 1, 2017. Appointments at a more senior level may also be considered. Review of applications will begin immediately and will continue until the position is filled. All applications should reach the Department no later than December 12, 2016. All inquiries about the position should be directed to the Chair at the above-mentioned email address.  For additional information, please visit the departmental website.All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadian citizens and permanent residents of Canada will be given priority. Concordia University is committed to employment equity.All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadian citizens and permanent residents of Canada will be given priority. Concordia University is committed to employment equity.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFaculty of Arts and Science
            
                Faculty of Arts and Science
            Tenure Track Position in Algebra and Number TheoryEmployment equityConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424