http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/about/jobs/tenure-track-appointments/tenure-track-position-in-computational-economics.htmlThe Department of Economics at Concordia University in Montreal, Quebec, invites applications for two junior tenure-track positions in computational economics. The ideal candidate conducts excellent quality applied economic analysis in fields such as econometrics, macroeconomics, financial economics, labour economics or industrial organization. One of these positions will be in econometrics. The ideal candidate is committed to research and graduate student supervision. An ability to teach effectively at the graduate and undergraduate levels is necessary.  A PhD or imminent PhD is required.  Appointments at a more senior level may also be considered.It is preferable for candidates to register and submit materials electronically to the following web address:  econjobmarket.org.  Applications must consist of a cover letter, a current curriculum vitae, copies of recent publications, a statement of teaching philosophy/interests, a statement of research achievements, and evidence of teaching effectiveness.  Candidates must also arrange to have three letters of reference sent directly to: econjobmarket.org.  Otherwise materials can be mailed to:Dr. Greg LeBlanc, Chair
Department of Economics
Concordia University
1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, QC, H3G 1M8Greg.LeBlanc@concordia.cahttp://www.concordia.ca/artsci/economics.htmlSubject to budgetary approval, we anticipate filling these positions, normally at the rank of Assistant Professor, for August 1, 2017.  Review of applications will begin immediately and will continue until the positions have been filled.  All applications should reach the department no later than December 12, 2016.  All inquiries about the positions should be directed to Dr. LeBlanc.All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadian citizens and permanent residents of Canada will be given priority.  Concordia University is committed to employment equity. All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadian citizens and permanent residents of Canada will be given priority. Concordia University is committed to employment equity.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFaculty of Arts and Science
            
                Faculty of Arts and Science
            Tenure-Track Positions in Computational EconomicsEmployment equityConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424