http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/about/jobs/tenure-track-appointments/tenure-track-position-in-migration-geographies.htmlThe Department of Geography, Planning and Environment is seeking a tenure-track appointment in Migration Geographies. The candidate should hold a PhD in Geography and adopt a broadly defined feminist and/or postcolonial geography approach to transnational migration. The successful candidate will teach courses in our graduate and undergraduate programs as well as supervise Master’s and PhD students. We are looking for teaching specialization and demonstrated research excellence in a relevant field of study, such as: displacement, detention and other forced (im)mobilities; borders, sovereignty and citizenship; social exclusion (i.e. along lines of race and/or gender); urbanization involving cross-border movements, such as labour migration; and migration resulting from environmental change.Applications must consist of a cover letter, a current curriculum vitae, copies of recent publications, a statement of teaching philosophy/interests, a statement of research achievements and plans, and evidence of teaching effectiveness. Candidates must also arrange to have three letters of reference sent directly by email to the departmental contact:Dr. Monica E. Mulrennan
Chair, Department of Geography, Planning and Environment
Concordia University
1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada, H3G 1M8
Email: monica.mulrennan@concordia.ca
Web: http://www.concordia.ca/gpeSubject to budgetary approval, we anticipate filling this position at the rank of Assistant Professor, to begin August 1st 2017. All applications should reach the department no later than December 12th 2016. Review of applications will begin immediately after this date and will continue until the position is filled. All inquiries about the position should be directed to Dr. Monica Mulrennan.All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadian citizens and permanent residents of Canada will be given priority. Concordia University is committed to employment equity. All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadian citizens and permanent residents of Canada will be given priority. Concordia University is committed to employment equity.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFaculty of Arts and Science
            
                Faculty of Arts and Science
            Tenure Track Position in Migration GeographiesEmployment equityConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424