http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/about/jobs/tenure-track-appointments/tenure-track-position-in-critical-digital-media-production.htmlConcordia University’s Department of Communication Studies invites applications for a full-time tenure-track position at the rank of Assistant Professor in CRITICAL DIGITAL MEDIA PRODUCTION. The ideal candidate will be a media-maker with an established production practice whose work is created within, and circulated across, a range of media tools and digital platforms. They will have experience teaching in an undergraduate studio environment and be capable of providing instruction in the program’s undergraduate media production streams, with an emphasis on sound or sound/video. Candidates must have competency in a range of digital media authoring and computing tools consistent with their creative practice. Candidates will be expected to teach undergraduate and advanced graduate seminars in the study and practice of critical digital media production, as well as supervise graduate student research. Additional areas of expertise include podcasting, spoken word serials, distributed storytelling, social media campaigns, activist media, performance, participatory or community-based media design, or immersive media. We especially welcome critical race, post-colonial, indigenous and feminist approaches.The Department’s faculty is at the forefront of the theorization and production of a wide range of media and our renowned undergraduate programs offer courses in sound, video, and intermedia underpinned by critical frameworks including cultural studies, media studies, cinema studies, environmental studies, game studies, mobility studies, and the politics of identity. Founded in 1965, the Department of Communication Studies at Concordia University is Canada’s oldest degree-granting department in the discipline. The Department offers programs leading to the BA, Graduate Diploma, MA, and PhD degrees. The undergraduate Degree in Communication Studies is well known for its integration of media production and critical theoretical perspectives; we offer the only undergraduate program in Communication and Cultural Studies and the only graduate diploma in Communication in Canada; our MA in Media Studies is unique in its structure and focus; our growing PhD program offers students advanced training in a wide range of fields in media and cultural studies, including research-creation. In keeping with Concordia’s mission, the Department fosters inclusivity in its research, curriculum, and teaching practices, and is committed to serving the needs of a diverse student population. Montreal, where both campuses are located, is a world class city of over 3 million people, offering a rich and diverse cultural life, and the intellectual stimulation of four major universities. In addition, the city is a major new site of innovation and excellence in emerging digital media technologies, with significant government and private industry support. Candidates are encouraged to visit our departmental website for additional information concerning our programs and priorities: http://www.concordia.ca/artsci/coms.html  RESPONSIBILITIESThe appointed candidate will be expected to teach at all four levels of the curriculum – BA, Diploma, MA and PhD, to supervise undergraduate and graduate students, to engage in ongoing research-creation including publication and screenings/performances/installations, and to contribute through service to the life and reputation of the Department, the University and wider community.QUALIFICATIONSThe ideal candidate will have a terminal degree (PhD or MFA) in an area of expertise related to sound and video along with successful teaching experience, proven grant-writing abilities, and promise of creative distinction. COMPENSATIONConcordia offers faculty a competitive compensation and benefits package covering health insurance, pension and retirement benefits, paid parental leave, and savings programs. We also provide mentoring and support for research, scholarship, and publication as part of our commitment to ongoing faculty professional development.APPLICATIONSSubject to budgetary approval, the position will begin July 1, 2017. Applications must be received by no later than December 12, 2016. They should be as a single PDF to Ms. Sheelah O’Neill, Department Administrator at sheelah.oneill@concordia.ca with the subject heading Tenure-track position in Critical Digital Media Production. Three letters of reference must be sent directly to same email address (Subject: Reference for [Candidate’s Name]) or mailed to the department to arrive by December 12, 2016:Dr. Sandra Gabriele, Chair
Department of Communication Studies, CJ 3.239
Concordia University
7141 Sherbrooke Street West
Montreal, Quebec H4B 1R6The application must consist of the following items, in the given order, as a single PDF. Include embedded links if/as necessary:All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadian citizens and permanent residents of Canada will be given priority. Concordia University is committed to employment equity.All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadian citizens and permanent residents of Canada will be given priority. Concordia University is committed to employment equity.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFaculty of Arts and Science
            
                Faculty of Arts and Science
            Tenure Track Position in Critical Digital Media ProductionEmployment equityDepartment of Communication Studies, Concordia UniversityConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424