http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/about/jobs/tenure-track-appointments/tenure-track-position-in-political-science-specializing-human-rights.htmlThe Department of Political Science at Concordia University in Montreal, Quebec, is seeking applications for a tenure-track appointment in Political Science, with a specialization in human rights. Preference will be given to research in International Relations. Applicants must have a Ph.D., or be near completion of a doctoral degree, in Political Science or International Relations. The ability to fulfill core teaching needs in the undergraduate and graduate (MPPPA and Ph.D.) curriculum is an asset. The successful candidate will provide evidence of a productive research agenda and teaching effectiveness.Applications must consist of a cover letter, a current curriculum vitae, copies of recent publications, a statement of teaching philosophy/interests, a statement of research achievements/interests, and evidence of teaching effectiveness.  Candidates must also arrange to have three letters of reference sent directly to the department contact.Dr. Marlene Sokolon
Chair, Department of Political Science
1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montréal, Québec, Canada, H3G 1M8PoliticalScience.Chair@concordia.cahttp://www.concordia.ca/artsci/polisci.htmlSubject to budgetary approval, we anticipate filling this position, normally at the rank of Assistant Professor, for August 1, 2017. Completed applications are due by December 12, 2016, but will be considered until the position has been filled. All inquiries about the position should be directed to Dr. Sokolon:PoliticalScience.Chair@Concordia.caAll qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadian citizens and permanent residents of Canada will be given priority. Concordia University is committed to employment equity.All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadian citizens and permanent residents of Canada will be given priority. Concordia University is committed to employment equity.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFaculty of Arts and Science
            
                Faculty of Arts and Science
            Tenure-Track Position in Political Science, Specializing in Human RightsEmployment equityConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424