http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/artsci/physics/2016/10/13/the-2016-reunion-of-the-department-of-physics-at-concordia-was-a.htmlThe 2016 Reunion of the Department of Physics at Concordia was an intense experience. Alumni from the ’60s, ’70s, ’80s, ’90s, ’00s and ’10s met with each other and with current faculty, staff and students. Many had not seen each other for decades, and happily travelled long space-time distances to reconnect.Alumni at the reunion were full of genuine excitement to see former teachers and classmates; there was laughter erupting from old stories and questions about the current reality in the department. Jeff Lawy BSc 01, MBA 08, shared inspirational ideas with younger alumni on how volunteering can also be a strategic career move. Daniel Grozdanov, BSc 10, and Waël Chanab, BSc 10, wowed the crowd with their latest virtual reality work and Roch Comeau, BSc 89, shared a very personal account of how he went from a physics passion and “average” grades to building a sizeable company producing cutting-edge tools for medical research. Current department faculty Alex Champagne, Claudine Gauthier and Pablo Bianucci spoke about physics programs and research. They emphasized that the Concordia spirit of caring for students and one-on-one mentoring is being renewed in the department. Valter Zazubovits led a laboratory tour, where alumni saw both cutting-edge equipment as well as a few good-old set-ups they had used in their own studies. For all of us faculty and staff who had a chance to see former students, the event was a real treat. We all rediscovered how rich and diversified our alumni are. We already look forward to seeing you again and promise to keep in touch. We sincerely thank you and feel privileged to be part of your community, Your physics faculty and colleagues from Concordia. 
Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityThe 2016 Reunion of the Department of Physics at Concordia was an intense experience.Department of Physics
            
                Department of PhysicsFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/artsci/physics/2016/10/13/the-2016-reunion-of-the-department-of-physics-at-concordia-was-a.htmlThe 2016 Reunion of the Department of Physics at Concordia was an intense experience. Alumni from the ’60s, ’70s, ’80s, ’90s, ’00s and ’10s met with each other and with current faculty, staff and students. Many had not seen each other for decades, and happily travelled long space-time distances to reconnect.Alumni at the reunion were full of genuine excitement to see former teachers and classmates; there was laughter erupting from old stories and questions about the current reality in the department. Jeff Lawy BSc 01, MBA 08, shared inspirational ideas with younger alumni on how volunteering can also be a strategic career move. Daniel Grozdanov, BSc 10, and Waël Chanab, BSc 10, wowed the crowd with their latest virtual reality work and Roch Comeau, BSc 89, shared a very personal account of how he went from a physics passion and “average” grades to building a sizeable company producing cutting-edge tools for medical research. Current department faculty Alex Champagne, Claudine Gauthier and Pablo Bianucci spoke about physics programs and research. They emphasized that the Concordia spirit of caring for students and one-on-one mentoring is being renewed in the department. Valter Zazubovits led a laboratory tour, where alumni saw both cutting-edge equipment as well as a few good-old set-ups they had used in their own studies. For all of us faculty and staff who had a chance to see former students, the event was a real treat. We all rediscovered how rich and diversified our alumni are. We already look forward to seeing you again and promise to keep in touch. We sincerely thank you and feel privileged to be part of your community, Your physics faculty and colleagues from Concordia. 
Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityThe 2016 Reunion of the Department of Physics at Concordia was an intense experience.Department of Physics
            
                Department of PhysicsFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424