http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2015/01/21/why-universities-should-innovate-david-ward-strategic-directions.htmlUniversities can no longer adopt a “one size fits all” approach to higher education.The reality, says David Ward, is that today’s universities are living in a era of revenue stress, coupled with a digital revolution and an increasingly diverse student population. “In my first 15 years in higher education administration, the pendulum would swing back and forth regarding funding,” says the former president and provost of the University of Wisconsin-Madison (UW–Madison). “You could wait it out knowing that the pendulum would eventually swing back and you would have funding, but waiting it out is no longer an option.”Given this new reality, Ward says universities need to think broadly and deeply about how to reform or update the kinds of educational experiences they’re providing. They must also have a commitment and a strategy that focuses their efforts.On January 28, at Concordia, Ward will share his experiences in the presentation “Why should universities innovate?” He is the first speaker in a new series at Concordia, The Future of the University and the Future of Learning.The goal of the series is to engage faculty, staff, students, alumni and donors in conversations about  “What’s next for Concordia?” as part of the university’s strategic directions initiative.A well-respected scholar, researcher and administrator, Ward was UW–Madison’s provost and then its president (chancellor in the U.S.) from 1993 to 2000. He served as president of the American Council on Education before returning to the university as interim chancellor in 2011.What he found was a much different landscape — a continued decline in public funding, a much more diverse student population and shifting societal expectations.In response, Ward energized broad educational innovations that focused on three main goals: pivoting the student experience to active learning, creating innovative master’s degree programs and certificates, and using technology to diversify learning experiences.We asked Ward to share some of his insights into education ahead of the January 28 presentation at Concordia.The first was revenue stress. In the 1990s, the pendulum would swing back and forth; there were good years and bad years. When I got back following the recession, I found that the pendulum had fallen on the ground. The revenue crisis was much more serious, and you could no longer wait it out as we had done in previous years. You had to address it.The second change I saw was in the diversity of our student population. The idea of a student being predominantly 18 years old and enrolled in a three- to four-year program was no longer the case. There were many more adult students, who for many reasons, were dropping in and out of university. As a result, the student experience was no longer a singular one.I also found there was much more anxiety among our students and their parents, and a lot of debate about whether programs should meet the needs of the economy by more directly preparing students for jobs.One of the first questions I asked myself was, “Who was thinking or doing things differently?” The key was to find existing changes and innovation, and create a dialogue among and between departments. Universities run in a “siloed” way, so you need to find ways to bring departments together.
The speaker series The Future of the University and the Future of Learning is part of Concordia’s strategic directions process.David Ward addresses the question “Why should universities innovate?” at 11 a.m. on January 28 in Room MB-2.445 in the John Molson School of Business Building (MB), 1450 Guy St., Sir George Williams Campus.Randy Bass, vice-provost for Education at Georgetown University, takes the podium on February 5 to address the question of “What is next-generation learning?” On March 10, Elizabeth Cannon, president of the University of Calgary, will reflect on the question “How can universities go from good to great?”To register for these presentations, please email directions@concordia.ca. Include your name and whether you're faculty, a student or a staff member.
  Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityWhy universities should innovateNews
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated topicsWhat were some of the most striking changes you saw when you returned to the University of Wisconsin-Madison in 2011?What was your approach to leading educational innovation at the UW-M?What are the five characteristics a university needs to be innovative?Find an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424