http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2014/10/16/5-healthy-lifestyle-tips-to-boost-grades.html
Ahmed is a second-year Concordia student studying biology. He starts the day with a fresh, healthy breakfast before heading to his first class. At midday, he hits the gym for 30 minutes to break a sweat and ease the morning’s stress. While writing a quiz later, he uses deep breathing exercises to calm down and help him focus. Before he turns in for the night, he turns his phone off so he can fall asleep at his usual time. Ahmed believes that these habits will help him do well in school.His instincts are right. Many studies show a link between healthy behaviours and academic performance, including grades. Here are some healthy living strategies that will help you meet the academic challenges of the year:A healthy diet is a plant-based diet. This means choosing fruit, vegetables and grains — whole grains, when you can — more often. You can also choose protein-rich plant foods, such as beans, nuts and seeds, instead of meat.Canada’s Food Guide offers an overview of healthy eating and is a great place to start. Health Services’ Healthy Eating: A Practical Guide is another helpful resource. You can pick up a copy of these documents from the Health Services waiting room or get them online.When you move, blood flow increases to your brain. It brings oxygen and removes the by-products your brain makes from all your thinking, learning and problem-solving. In fact, a recent, large-scale study of college students found that those who met physical activity recommendations had higher grades than those who weren’t as active.The recommendation is 150 minutes — that’s only two and a half hours — of moderate-intensity activity a week. You don’t need to cut into your study time to gain substantial benefits.For more information, check out 5 ways to get fit this fall, and Physical Activity on the Health Services web page.Stress is a part of life. A little stress can be helpful, as it stimulates you to accomplish your goals. Too often, though, stress becomes overwhelming. In the 2013 National College Health Assessment (NCHA), Concordia students named stress as the most common factor affecting their academic performance. Learn to manage stress, and you’ll find the other elements of healthy living fall into place.For information on stress and how to manage it, consult Health Services’ Stress Management: A Practical Guide online or pick up a copy at the Health Services waiting room.Getting enough good-quality sleep allows your brain to function as well as it can. Sleep deprivation messes with your concentration, creativity and problem solving. In short, all the tools you need for school. A key sleep strategy is to go to bed and wake up at the same time each day — even on weekends.Heavy drinking is proven to take its toll on your grades. Students who drink heavily are more likely to miss classes, fall behind, spend less time studying, do poorly on exams or papers, and receive lower overall grades.If you drink, do so in moderation. And just how much is that? Canada’s Low-Risk Alcohol Drinking Guidelines say that if you choose to drink, drink no more than:A recent study found that university students rated health centre medical staff — along with parents — as the most believable sources of health information. Yet for busy students, it can be challenging to fit an appointment into your already full schedule.Watch out for Student Services Healthy You at CU kiosk out and about on campus every week this term! Come by to talk with a health promotion specialist or a nurse, book an appointment on the spot, and pick up some reliable, evidence-based health information. We can help you set, achieve, and maintain your health goals.
See more healthy living information at Health Services online.
  
        5 secrets to smart eating at exam time
    
        How to eat healthy in 2016
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia University5 healthy lifestyle tips that boost your gradesNews
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topics1.    Eat a healthy diet2.    Engage in regular physical activity3.    Manage stress4.    Get enough sleep5.    If you drink alcohol, do so in moderation
Student Services are here to help!Find an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424