http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/math-stats/services/advising.htmlAll students in the Mathematics & Statistics undergraduate programs can see an academic advisor at any time during the semester. Non-program students who need to take math courses, including independent students, can also see one of our academic advisors depending on the situation. Please call the following (main telephone number: 514-848-2424) to get information:Once you submit an application, you will be given a netname and password to use to check your application status on the MyConcordia Portal.Orientation/advising sessions are organized each year for new students in our programs, and usually take place during the months of May until August. Students are invited to attend these sessions by email.If you missed the orientation/advising session, you are encouraged to see the academic advisor of their program of study prior to registering for any course. You should bring your letter of admission.Returning students in a Mathematics & Statistics program are encouraged to see the academic advisor of their program of study every year prior to registration. Students can also see an academic advisor throughout the year, as needed.The SIS system has a waiting list feature that has discontinued the practice of requesting course overfills through our Department. If the course you want to register for is full, the SIS system will automatically ask you if you want to be on a waiting list, and if you agree, it will tell you what number you are on the list.  You will then be informed by email when space becomes available and you will automatically be registered in the course.Please note that the Department cannot add you to the waiting list, nor can it change your place on the list. Enrollment capacities for each section have been increased and normally reflect the number of seats in the classroom.  Overfilling a classroom size is not permitted as it is against University fire regulations.Exemptions are different from prerequisite waivers. An exemption is granted to a student upon admission if the student took and passed a course required in their program with more than D+ in CEGEP or equivalent studies. Changes in exemptions are exceptional and students need to have compelling reasons.If you realize that you were not given an exemption for a course that should have been included, you can request to add an exemption, as follows:Please ensure that the student request form is filled properly, otherwise it will cause unecessary delays that may result in the request not being approved. The student request should include a valid reason, a current copy of your student record, and supporting documentation validating request.If an exemption was granted to you but you did not receive a grade that is required in some programs, you may request to have an exemption removed so that you can take the course again and get a better grade. You can request to remove an exemption as follows:Please ensure that the student request form is filled properly, otherwise it will cause unecessary delays that may result in the request not being approved. The student request should include a valid reason, a current copy of your student record, and supporting documentation validating request.Late DNE or DISC requests are done through a Student Request for Late Registration & Late Withdrawals form (found on your MyConcordia Portal under Student Administrative Affairs) and must include a valid reason, a current copy of your student transcript, and any support documentation validating your request.  Submission of these requests are done as follows:Please ensure that the student request form is filled properly, otherwise it will cause unecessary delays that may result in the request not being approved. Late registration/withdrawal requests are done through a "Student Request for Late Registration & Late Withdrawals form" (found on your MyConcordia Portal under Student Administrative Affairs) and must include a valid reason, a current copy of your student transcript, written permission from the instructor of the course/section, and any support documentation validating your request.  Submission of these requests are done as follows:Please ensure that the student request form is filled properly, otherwise it will cause unecessary delays that may result in the request not being approved. There are currently placement tests for MATH 203, 204, 205; they are normally scheduled during the first week of class in September and January. If you quality to write a placement exam for one of these courses (see Placement Examination Information Sheet), please fill a Request to Write a Placement Examination and submit it to our Undergraduate Program Assistant in LB 901-2.Students may request a pre-requisite waiver if they already took an equivalent course in the past. Courses completed more than 10 years ago may not be considered.  Pre-requisite waivers for Mathematics or Statistics courses are requested through academic advisors depending on the course you wish to get a preprequisite for (please see table below). When meeting with the academic advisor, you need to have the course descriptions and the university or college transcript showing the course which is a prerequisite to the course you wish to take. Independent Students: you must meet with the Independent Student Advisor first, as you may be required to fill a Pre-requisite Waiver form for Independent and Visiting Students.Students whose assessment has placed them in neither Acceptable or Conditional standing must submit an application for readmission to obtain permission to register at the university. More information can be found here.You are permitted to take a course for a second time if you failed a course or to better your grade.  Note that your annual and cummulative GPA will count the latest grade you received for the course, and only the first course will be credited towards your degree. Below is information on what you should do if the system blocks you from registering a second time for a course:Once you are unblocked by the appropriate advisor, you will have to register for the course.Students are permitted to take a course for a third time only through a student request form. Note that your annual and cummulative GPA will count the latest grade you received for the course, and only the first course will be credited towards your degree. Below is information on what you should do if you want to register a third time for a course:Please ensure that the student request form is filled properly, otherwise it will cause unecessary delays that may result in your request not being approved. Your student request should include a reason for your request, a current copy of your student record, and supporting documentation validating request.While completing a degree in our Department, a student may wish to take a course at another Quebec institution or at another university outside of the province. Students may do so for a variety of reasons (different course offerings, experience at another school, closeness to home, etc). The procedures to follow are found here.Applications for a transfer will be considered once a year, in the middle of June, once the grades for all courses taken over the academic year become available. In the meantime, you have to select courses and do early registration as if you stayed in your current program. If you are accepted in June, you will be able to change your registration.For any questions, simply contact the Actuarial Mathematics Program Director, Dr. P. Gaillardetz.Students who wish to transfer to the Co-op Program must meet with Dr. C. Hyndman.

 Co-op Application FormIf you want to change your concentration to any of our Honours concentrations, you must make an appointment with the Honours Advisor, Dr. R. Stern. You are encouraged to see a full-time faculty member who will act as your academic advisor and mentor throughout the program.Admission to an Honours programs has additional requirements. For more information, please consult the Faculty's Honours regulations in the Undergraduate Calendar. Applications for a transfer will be considered once a year, at the end of May, for students who are already admitted at Concordia, once the grades for all courses taken over the academic year become available. In the meantime, you have to select courses and do early registration as if you stayed in your current program. If you are accepted in May, you will be able to change your registration.For any question, simply contact the Mathematical and Computational Finance Program Director, Dr. C. Hyndman.Students are admitted into a BA degree or a BSc depending on their educational background:- Students in the BA or BSc need to have taken MATH 203, 204 and 205 at the Cegep level;
- Students in the BSc took several courses in Physics, Chemistry and Biology at the Cegep level.Sometimes students choose BA on their application without realizing that they are elible to get into the BSc. If you were admitted into the BA and are eligible to be in the BSc, you must request a degree transfer if you want to switch.If you are in the BA because you did not satisfy the BSc requirement at the time of admission, you need to take the following courses (a total of 21 credits) if you want to switch:- take Physics 204, 205, 206 (3 credits each) + Physics labs 224, 225, 226 (1 credit each);
- take Chemistry 205 and 206 (3 credits each); and
- take Biology 203 (3 credits).You can then request a degree transfer.Please note that only 18 credits of the 30 credits (21 credits Physics, Chemistry and Biology + MATH 203, 204 and 205) can be counted as part of the 90 BSc program credits; all 30 credits can be counted for Extended Credit Program (ECP) students.Mathematics Help Centre
 Library Building (LB), Room 912
1400 de Maisonneuve Blvd. West© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityStudent advisingDepartment of Mathematics & Statistics
            
                Department of Mathematics & Statistics
            LocationThe information below will help to know what to do or whom to contact.
 
                
					
                    Information about the application process
                
            
                
					
                    Information about Mathematics & Statistics' programs
                
            
                
					
                    Information about programs in different faculties/schools
                
            
                
					
                    Application status
                
            
                
					
                    New student orientation/advising sessions
                
            
                
					
                    Returning students in our programs
                
            
                
					
                    What can I do if I can't register because the course is full?
                
            
                
					
                    How can I add or remove exemptions?
                
            
                
					
                    Adding exemptions
                
            
                
					
                    Removing exemptions
                
            
                
					
                    What are the procedures for a late DNE or DISC?
                
            
                
					
                    How can I register or withdraw for a course after the registration deadline date?
                
            
                
					
                    Does your department hold placement exams?
                
            
                
					
                    What are the procedures to get a pre-requisite waiver?
                
            
                
					
                    How can I be readmitted after being assessed with poor academic standing?
                
            
                
					
                    How can I take a course for a second time?
                
            
                
					
                    How can I take a course for a third time?
                
            
                
					
                    How can I transfer credits from another university?
                
            
                
					
                    Change of concentration/program
                
            
                
					
                    To the Actuarial or Actuarial Math/Finance program
                
            
                
					
                    To the Co-op program
                
            
                
					
                    To the Honours program
                
            
                
					
                    To the Mathematical & Computational Finance program
                
            
                
					
                    To any other Mathematics & Statistics program
                
            
                
					
                    Change from Bachelors of Arts to a Bachelors of Science (BA to BSc)Potential students/applicants
  Academic advising
  Most frequent academic advising questions & answers  Requests for changes in program statusConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424