http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/campus-life/emergency/alerts.html
Having accurate information during an emergency is critical. The university will employ a variety of methods to alert and keep the university community informed of emergency situations, as well as the impact, if any, on university operations.Depending on the magnitude of the emergency, a single method, or combination of different methods, may be used to let you know about an emergency.These methods include:In most cases, notifications and information concerning emergencies on campus will be disseminated in a timely and consistently fashion with accurate information.  This is why we encourage the community to be aware of the different emergency notification channels available to them and to review emergency procedures to be well informed and prepared when and emergency occurs on campus.There are some emergencies however that can be a matter of life and death and do not give us the luxury of time to craft consistent messages with accurate information.  A fire alarm is a good example of how building occupants receive a notification via alarm bells without being provided any details as to where the fire may be or what exactly is burning.  Because it is potentially a life and death situation, the importance is alerting building occupants to the danger and getting them to safety as quickly as possible.There are other situations like this where a serious threat to the life and safety of people on campus may present itself but the specific details as to the exact location and/or the exact nature of the threat is not immediately known.For example, active shooter and/or terrorist attacks are initially very chaotic and confusing.  The ability of authorities to respond, assess and understand what is happening, where the threat are and who is most at risk is nearly impossible within the first 30 minutes.  In these cases, like a fire alarm, the emphasis must be placed on alerting those who are potentially at risk as quickly as possible. The strategy is to interrupt people caught up in their daily activities, tell them they are potentially in danger to trigger their individual survival instinct.  Once triggered, the individual can figure out if he/she is in immediate danger and take the necessary steps to protect themselves. This is why at Concordia, if a serious threat to the life and safety of people on campus due to an armed intruder, a very basic emergency alert will be sent to the entire campus within seconds;EMERGENCY ALERT:  ARMED INTRUDER at SGW Campus – If on campus, SEEK A SECURE LOCATION immediately, If not on SGW campus, stay away and await further instructions.The purpose of the campus alert is to advise the campus community as quickly as possible that a dangerous situation is unfolding and everyone should stop what they are doing and assess their own situation and react accordingly.(see the active shooter procedure)Always keep in mind that the emergency may be occurring in your building, a neighbouring building or across campus.  If you assess that nothing is happening around and you are safe, remain where you are until you have more information as to the specific nature and location of the emergency or if your situation changes.  As soon as more information becomes available and is confirmed, subsequent emergency notification messages will be sent, providing more details such as to the exact nature and location of the emergency to help building occupants determine what course of action they should take.  The Alertus Mobile App. provides push notifications for emergency alerts for your cell phone or mobile device.  The App will be used to advise the concordia community during significant emergencies on campus.The App can be downloaded for free, from the Apple app store or the Google play store.  For more information on the Alertus app, e-mail us at Emergency.Management@concordia.caAs part of the University's emergency communication stategy, it is currently deploying computer pop-up alert system on university owned computers.  Students and employees are encouraged to download the Alertus application software that would allow them to receive these pop-up alerts on their computers.  The alerts appear as a full screen message like the image below.  Once the user has read the message, and taken the appropriate action, they can simply click on the green aknowledge button to clear the message.To download and set up the secure Alertus application:Note:  the alertus Mobile client is meant for download and installation on laptop computers.  The client does not function on mobile devices. Pop-up alert messages will only function when the laptop computer is connected to the university network or wifi network.For more information on Alertus, e-mail us at Emergency.Management@concordia.ca The Concordia emergency notification system is an automated system used to notify university staff and faculty of an emergency situation or significant disruption to university operations. The system functions on several platforms, placing calls to office phones, cell phones, home phones as well as sending e-mail messages to your university and personal e-mail address.
 The system will call you from 514-848-8800  or e-mail you from emergency.management@concordia.ca.Once the message is heard or read, the system may ask you to confirm receipt of the message either by pressing a number key on your phone or clicking on a link in the body of the e-mail message.  The confirmation of receipt function is important as it allows emergency management personnel to see who has received the notififcation and assess if other messages are necessary.
 If the system leaves a notification on your office voice mail, You will not be able to confirm receipt of the message. To acknowledge a message left as a voice mail, you must call the emergency notification system at 514-848-8800.  You will hear the recorded emergency hotline message and then be prompted to log in to the system.Select to log in using a unique phone number, either your cell phone or your home number.  The system will not accept an extension number.Once logged in follow the systems prompts to listen and acknowledge your message.To delete the message from your voice mail, use the regular voice mail function: Any system is only as good as the information we put in it.  Unfortunatly, manny empployees are not in the emergency notification system because they have failed to provide accurate contact information.The emergency notification system utilizes the contact information that you have provided in your Human Resources profile.  It is your responsibility to keep your office location and contact information up to date.  The system will import all the contact information you choose to provide; cell phone, home phone, concordia and personal e-mail addresses as well as your office location and  telephone extension.  To validate and/or update your contact information:Remember to validate your office location, office telephone extension number and E-mail address. The emergency notification system is updated weekly.If you have any questions concerning the emergency notification system, please e-mail us at emergency.management@concordia.ca  During certain emergencies, social; media such as Twitter and Facebook are used to disseminate information.  TheConcordia911 twitter feed and emergency management Facebook page are used exclusively for emergency related information at Concordia .  514-848-8800 or 8800 is the number for the emergency information line. Recorded information concerning a significant emergency that has affected university operations or caused a building(s) to be closed will be posted and regularly updated on the emergency information line.Most large buildings at Concordia have a public address system (P.A.) as part of a building's fire alarm.  The building P.A. system will be used to communicate information concerning an emergency situation to building occupants.  If the fire alarm is hear, this is a signal to evacuate immediatly, do not wait for the P.A. message to confirm an evacuation.Emergency management also uses the following Twitter and Facebook accounts to post information related to significant emergency situations on or near campus.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityEmergency alertsReceiving a notificationNotifications and voice mailUpdating your contact informationTwitter and FacebookEmergency Notification Strategy
                
            
                
					
                    Alertus mobile app for smart phones and tablets
                
            
                
					
                    Computer pop-up alerts
                
            
                
					
                    Emergency notification for staff and faculty
                
            
                
					
                    Social Media (Twitter & Facebook)
                
            
                
					
                    Emergency information line (514-848-8800)
                
            
                
					
                    Building public address systems (PA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424