http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2015/05/22/aramark-food-services-as-of-june-1.htmlAfter a lengthy and thorough consultation and tendering process, Aramark has been chosen to provide the university’s food services for the next five years beginning June 1. The decision was approved at the May 20 Board of Governors meeting. The five-year contract has a one-year renewal option that can be exercised twice.Aramark is a global food service provider based in Philadelphia with offices in Montreal. Serving 22 countries, Aramark has a firm commitment to corporate responsibility, which includes protecting the environment, advancing consumer health and wellness and strengthening communities.The announcement is expected to mark a new era of food services at the university. The request for proposals announced in February contained an unprecedented number of sustainability and nutritional requirements, including sourcing food locally, offering more vegetarian and vegan options, and fair trade and ethically raised products including affordable options.Once on campus, Aramark will be renovating the main food service retail locations over the summer. Consequently, the number of locations open at any time over the summer will be limited. However, snack and beverage services will continue to be offered to the community on both campuses during the upgrades. Be sure to check the status of your preferred location before venturing out.Catering services will be maintained over the summer. For more information about the transition, consult the catering web page or contact food.services@concordia.ca.Stay tuned to NOW to learn more about what Aramark has planned. A feature interview will be posted over the summer.
        Concordia’s new food service provider focuses on ethical dining
    
        There’s a new thirst-quencher on campus
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityAnd the winner of the food contract is ...News
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424