http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/campus-life/safety/awarenesscampaign.htmlThese are the key messages that Concordians should to think about when they are working, studying or conducting their research.EHS partnered with Assistant Professor Nathalie Dumont from the Department of Design & Computation Arts, Faculty of Fine Arts for the design of laboratory safety awareness posters. Students enrolled in a special topics course DART 398F Designing Print for Professional Practice competed to design a series of posters dealing with laboratory safety.Note: Clicking on each poster below will download it in PDF format. The jury composed of Pietro Gasparrini, Director of Environmental Health and Safety (EHS), Ariane Dray, Design alumni and art director at the studio Akufen, and Nathalie Dumont selected the winning design. Philippe Caron was announced as the winner and received a monetary prize ($500) and his poster series were professional produced and are a key component of our 2014 Safety Awareness Campaign.Caron’s striking proposal was unanimously elected. The jury particularly appreciated the dramatic and simple concept, the effective message, and the dynamic compositions. Alex Pelchat-White was elected as the second place design. The jury was impressed by the visual impact of the posters as well as the humoristic and efficient communication. The third place design was by Leandra Loffredo. The jury appreciated Leandra’s attention to detail, the convincing message, and the quality of her photosIn addition to the three students listed above, the following students had their work juried: Johnathon Bigsby, Louise Heng, Leandra Loffredo, Celeste Nakai, Melissa Noack, Edward Nyamenkum, Dacia Pantelis, Alex Pelchat-White, Véronique Pelletier, Frédérique Pelletier Morin, Sarah Pilgrim, Chloé Raymond, Laurence Robichaud-Baril, Steven Steffen, Gabrielle Vaillancourt, Marc-Antoine Vallée, and Paula Youwakim.The Office of Environmental Health and Safety and assistant professor Nathalie Dumont would like to praise the students for the quality of their proposals. Pietro Gasparrini was extremely happy by the students’ enthusiastic response.Spot the ConcordianEHS recruited Concordian’s as models for the posters series:- Hong Guan, Laboratory Chemical Technician, Department of Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering
- Dylan McLaughlin, Ph.D. Student, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry
- André Lavoie, Metal Workshop Technician, Faculty of Fine Arts
- Anna Chtchetinina, Research Assistant & M.Sc. Student, Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering
Sustainable PostersEHS ensured that this campaign was as sustainable as possible – posters were printed on 100% FSC post-consumer paper and using vegetable-based, environmentally safe inks. The posters were locally printed at a facility powered by biogas energy.Environmental, Health & Safety: 
514-848-2424, ext. 4877514-848-2807
ehs@concordia.ca Staff directoryQuestions, comments or concerns?
Please fill out this formReport an injury or a near-miss
 MSDS/SDS© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversitySafety Awareness CampaignContact usLaboratory Safety Poster Design CompetitionKnow the risks. 
 Protect yourself. 
 Keep it safe.Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424