http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/campus-life/safety/awards.htmlThe Sustainability and Safety Champions Awards were created to recognize and encourage sustainability and safe practices at Concordia. The Sustainability Champions Awards celebrate contributions towards the social, ecological and economic well-being of the university. The Safety Champions Awards highlight initiatives that improve, inspire and maintain best practices in health and safety. Champions are Concordians who have catalyzed change, overcome barriers and had a significant impact on safety or sustainability on campus. What is the role of the Fine Arts Safety Committee?Formed in 2005 the purpose of the committee is to address occupational health and safety issues relating specifically to the Faculty of Fine Arts academic programmes, facilities, students, faculty and employees.  The committee reports to the Dean of the Faculty of Fine Arts and acts as an advisory committee to the Office of the Dean in matters related to health and safety.What is the make-up of / who is represented on the committee?The Committee’s membership is composed of representatives from administration, faculty, student and technical or support groups.What safety success that the committee initiated or implemented are you most proud of?The committee is implementing online WHMIS training and standard operating procedures for shops and labs. Action items will be executed from the machine inventory audit conducted by EHS. A centralized hazardous waste storage room was assigned in the VA building and the procedures regarding handling and disposal of hazardous waste were communicated to all units.FAHSC will also review all reports and communicate with faculty and the Dean to provide updates.What role do you think the committee has in promoting health and safety within the faculty?The committee’s role is becoming increasingly important as there have been and continue to be, many procedural, legal and policy changes to health and safety regulations across the country and within the University. The committee would like to position itself as the “go to” group helping all members of the Faculty of Fine Arts community to become aware of the need for safety awareness and accident prevention.What is one thing you would tell other safety committees on campus?Continue to diligently inform all members of the Concordia University community of the need for health and safety awareness on a daily basis.Prepared by N. Muncs March 20, 2016 What is your role within your department? ​Psychology Department Laboratory/Safety Technician for two years now, but have been with the University for approximately 30 years.If you have held various jobs in Safety prior to your current one, briefly provide details of the jobs you have held and for how long?Research Technician for various labs within Concordia’s Center for Studies in Behavioural Neurobiology (CSBN) from 1985-1990. Research coordinator at l'Hôpital du Sacré-Cœur de Montréal for Dr. Rompré from 1990-1993. Lab Coordinator/Administrator for Dr. Amir with the CSBN from 1993-2013. Why is health and safety important to you?Most types of research can be a very dangerous business and I believe it is critical for anyone doing research to know the associated risks and Health and Safety training make that possible. Also, Health and Safety affects everyone and requires teamwork to make it work, it can bring people together in good or bad circumstances. What safety success that you initiated or implemented are you most proud of?
 There are two projects that I am equally proud of: Designing and implementing a Safety Orientation Session that is specific to the types of research being done in the Psychology department. This talk is given at the start of each fall semester to our Honours and Specialization students. The second project was initiating a redesign of the safety training requirements for research personnel with the help of EHS, the Psychology Department and the Faculty of Arts & Science Administration. What do you hope to accomplish with regards to health and safety in the future?​To help to remove the stigma that is associated with Health and Safety. People tend to think of a safety training session as an inconvenience, but in reality it is an important part of our everyday lives. What is one thing you would tell Concordians who want to improve safety in their areas of work or study?
 Treat your colleagues and work place as you would your home. I spend 8 hours a day at the university, so I think about the university as a second home. When thinking about Health and Safety, approach it as you would a family member, would you want them to take unnecessary risks? Of course not.What is your area of study and research?I develop new photocurable polymers for stereolithography 3D printing. I just defended my master's in the Individualized program and started my PhD in the same program.Why is health and safety important to you?I think safety and education go hand in hand; we cannot do one without the other. I would like to see more undergraduate students involved in university level research, and have the same opportunities that I had. The university’s strategic direction to "Double our research", to me, means doubling the number of undergraduate students involved in research and doubling their transition rate to research-based graduate studies at Concordia. The safety community at Concordia has the daunting task of finding a way to make sure that undergraduate students can safely work and learn in research laboratories. What safety success that you initiated or implemented are you most proud of?The hands-on laboratory safety training- which got fully booked in a week in the two times it has been offered so far. Even though I initiated the training, many individuals and supporters made it happen including the Mechanical & Industrial Engineering Safety Officer and Environmental Health and Safety personnel. The training is intended to help students develop that safety mindset they need to have when they design their experiments and assess risk. I hope that this encourages professors to accept those undergraduate students in their research laboratories and prompt the university to have more nourishing policies for the involvement of undergraduate students in research. What role do you think graduate students can have in promoting health and safety?Practically, graduate students have the biggest part of supervising undergraduate students working in research laboratories. This should be seen as an opportunity to hone their leadership, teaching, mentoring and supervision skills that are needed not only in academic careers but also in industrial careers. Graduate students can help the university to put in place formal ways to recognize and document the mentoring contribution of graduate students. For example, adding a line in the transcript and/or the "Concordia co-curricular record" (CCR). What is one thing you would tell Concordia students who want to improve safety in their areas of work or research?If my award could convey one message, I want it to be this message: we, students, can make a positive difference that lasts. Always be generous with your ideas and willing to work for them.What is your role at the university?Provost and Vice-President, Academic Affairs and Professor of Psychology, Faculty of Arts and Science for the past 3 years. Have you held or do you hold any position or role in sustainability on campus?Member of the Sustainability Steering Committee; Chair of the Teaching, Learning and Research Sustainability (TLRS) Sub-CommitteeWhich of your recent sustainability success stories are you most proud of?Concordia has a long history of sustainability interest and success, but until recently most of it was grassroots and informal. Over the past three years, we have successfully implemented a governance framework for sustainability, and some early wins include a formal definition of sustainability and a policy on sustainability that is about to be approved. We organized the 2015 Sommet Montreal de l’Innovation on the theme of the impact of climate change on cities which, together with the coming of Future Earth to Concordia, positioned us as Canadian leaders. On the teaching and learning side, I am particularly proud of the Sustainable Curriculum project, which identified all the courses with sustainability content in all four of our Faculties. Our Provost Fellow in Sustainability Peter Stoett is also spearheading initiatives to develop both a MOOC and for-credit programs on sustainability. Why have you chosen to make sustainability such an important focus of your time here at Concordia, and what are important things do you hope to accomplish in regard to sustainability in the years to come?This is the central issue of our time, and accordingly one of the most important concerns for our students. Our own professor Damon Matthews predicts that the dire 2 degrees Celsius worldwide temperature increase that would lead to catastrophic results will occur in less than 30 years unless we address this issue head on. The future generations, when they look back at the 2015-2030 period, will either praise our forward thinking and ability to preserve our living conditions, or pay for our short-sightedness.  It would behoove us to work diligently towards the former.What is your role at the university?Senior Electrical Engineering Student, Power and Renewable Energy Specialization.Founder and President of Sustainable Engineering Concordia (a student group) for the past 2 years.Have you held or do you hold any position or role in sustainability on campus?Coordinator of the Sustainable Curriculum Project (Sept 2014-Sept 2015)Researcher for the Sustainable Curriculum Project (June 2014 - Sept 2014)Board Member - Sustainability Action Fund (Sept 2013 - June 2014)Which of your recent sustainability success stories are you most proud of?I am most proud of my work with Sustainable Engineering Concordia. SEC is a student group that I founded two years ago and since then I have had the pleasure of working with numerous engineering students in organizing many events and projects, in addition to engaging them in the larger sustainability community at Concordia and in Montreal.I am also very proud of the work I completed with the Sustainable Curriculum Project. In collaboration with the other project members and the staff of the Sustainability Action Fund, I was able to strongly advocate the inclusion of more content on sustainability in the courses of all four faculties.Why have you chosen to make sustainability such an important focus of your time here at Concordia, and what are important things do you hope to accomplish in regard to sustainability in the years to come?Climate change is the biggest issue we face right now and I think that it is important for future engineers to be fully aware of the issues, as well as how they can contribute to lowering human environmental impact through their work. Sustainable development is full of opportunities for all types of engineers, which is why I sought to engage my fellow engineering students by creating Sustainable Engineering Concordia in order to provide them with the necessary skills, knowledge and opportunities to make meaningful contributions.In the future, I intend to develop and implement renewable energy resources while also continuing to provide training in sustainability to engineers.What is your role at the university?I am on a 2 year contract as the Food Contract administrator in Hospitality Services. I participate in the implementation of the Food Services strategic priorities and operational policies & procedures, as well as in the development of a wellness and sustainability program.Have you held or do you hold any position or role in sustainability on campus?My every day responsibility consists of verifying how the food contractor is managing its operations, including sustainability aspects such as recycling and composting, water use in the kitchen and energy savings. Local food procurement is an important issue in the day to day operation. I work with the food supplier, to make all those targets reachable. I collaborate with different stakeholders on campus in finding ways to improve food service’s sustainability. We come up with such interesting ideas and projects when we brainstorm all together. I make sure that these ideas don’t just stay on paper, and that we move forward in achieving our targets.Which of your recent sustainability success stories are you most proud of?Saving old flower boxes and repurposing them to grow fine herbs for the food services at the Grey Nuns. These giant flower boxes were going to the trash, and instead, I varnished them and found a spot for them, not far from the kitchen’s entrance. We bought soil and seedlings to grow fine herbs. To be able to see those fines herbs used in the food service was very fulfilling. Chef Daniel plans to repeat the experience this year. Why have you chosen to make sustainability such an important focus of your time here at Concordia, and what are important things do you hope to accomplish in regard to sustainability in the years to come?I really hope the good work and efforts made in such areas as recycling and composting will stay in place. Actions involving sustainability are a day to day engagement, for our society and for our future. What is your role at the university?I am currently an undergraduate student in the Department of Management with a minor in Marketing at the John Molson School of Business graduating this summer in 2016. I have been working as a research assistant since May 2015 and as a teacher assistant since September 2015. Have you held or do you hold any position or role in sustainability on campus?I am the Executive VP of the John Molson Sustainable Enterprise Committee (JSEC) and CASA’s Board of Director for the Sustainability Action Fund. Which of your recent sustainability success stories are you most proud of?JSEC just held our 10th annual Business Beyond Tomorrow Conference this March 19th, 2016, collaborating with JMSBG and McGill Net Impact. This year’s conference was an experiment where it was structured as three sets of workshops running simultaneously; professionals from different Business disciplines spoke and engaged our guests in purposeful conversations about how sustainability intertwines with their respective fields. It was a phenomenal event and I am proud to have been planning this conference with my team members. Why have you chosen to make sustainability such an important focus of your time here at Concordia, and what are important things do you hope to accomplish in regard to sustainability in the years to come?This story begins with the winter semester of 2015 when I enrolled in MANA 369 (Business and the Environment) taught by Dr. Raymond Paquin. It was an engaging and interactive course exploring concepts of sustainable business, allowing room for discussions that we do not necessarily have in other business courses (PS: I promise this isn’t a sales pitch). Taking that course led me to an unbelievable year where I have had the opportunity of being involved in different sustainability focused groups in addition to working in research focused on CSR.Down the road, my goal is to work in governmental organizations to advocate sustainability and assist in the environmental agenda to further global understanding and action.For now, I like to think that sustainability found me a year ago; I am more than certain that it will find me again after graduation. What is your role at the university?Associate Professor in the Department of Creative Arts Therapies and the Founder and Director of the Art Hives Initiative, my research Involves developing small and sustainable community art studios with students and residents for enacting caring, creative communities. I have been at Concordia for 5 years and have had an arts-based social inclusion research practice for the past 25 years.Have you held or do you hold any position or role in sustainability on campus?As the Provost Fellow for Community Engagement I am currently focused on the "Embrace the City” strategy which will bring to life all the amazing city projects faculty and students are involved in. The network of art hives are a part of this web and serve as storefront classrooms to foster engaged scholarship and build connections with diverse Montreal neighbourhoods to inform the university of the multiple ways of knowing that comes from surrounding communities.Which of your recent sustainability success stories are you most proud of?The Art Hive's Science Shop brings together Vanier CEGEP science teachers, indigenous scholars, and community members to explore through hands on sessions the big ideas in science.  The new Fabric Lab, and the Household Creative Reuse Depot at La Ruche d’Art: St Henri collects and freely distributes materials to sustain the 24 art hives in Montreal, both emerged from this new engagement. The Montreal Museum of Fine Art’s Art Hive will launch in November. Why have you chosen to make sustainability such an important focus of your time here at Concordia, and what are important things do you hope to accomplish in regard to sustainability in the years to come?In a rapidly changing world, the art hives have become safe places across Canada where people can meet in solidarity, share skills and resources and develop the necessary innovations to enhance the resiliency of their neighbourhoods. Developing methods of sharing economies is a hopeful way to approach the future.What is your role at the university?Office Assistant in ENCS, Mechanical & Industrial Engineering. 27 years in the MIE dept. (although 16.5 years located at CONCAVE Research Centre) Have you held or do you hold any position or role in sustainability on campus?I was co-nominator, along with Carol Williams, for one of the past co-winners of Sustainability Champions Award:  the late Distinguished Professor Emeritus Dr. Hugh McQueenWhich of your recent sustainability success stories are you most proud of?Implementing that our office uses either partly or totally recycled paper (we use tons of paper), other environmentally friendlier products, and reusing some salvaged used office/school supplies.Honestly, what I am most proud of is:  being a rare person being at an office job who still wore, for 25 years, the same 12 washable-reusable cotton menstrual pads!!! Why have you chosen to make sustainability such an important focus of your time here at Concordia, and what are important things do you hope to accomplish in regard to sustainability in the years to come?I was inspired by one of the past co-winners as a Sustainability Champion:  the late Distinguished Professor Emeritus Dr. Hugh McQueen.  I was enabled in numerous ways to have implemented the changes by my Supervisor, Departmental Administrator Maureen Thuringer. This award motivates me to accomplish many more tiny acts in the future, however, I wish that I could influence people to use less new and environmentally-unfriendly product items when holding events that are for image/influence/celebration/recruitment.The Sustainability and Safety Awards are given out at a Gala taking place in March that started with the Sustainability Gala in 2010 and the Safety Awards in 2014. This award ceremony has and continues to create a legacy of celebrating sustainability and safety practices on campus. The Champions are recognized and honoured for their outstanding work that goes above and beyond their mandates.The award ceremony aspires to create awareness of the difference-making work happening in sustainability and safety across campus. It also aims to inspire others to follow in the Champions’ footsteps to create long-lasting, positive change on campus.The Sustainability Champions Awards were created to demonstrate Concordia’s collective gratitude for ambassadors of change. It strives to appreciate those involved in sustainability endeavours at Concordia, to encourage dialogue and collaboration among stakeholders, and to raise the overall profile of sustainability on campus.Deadline:   The nomination period is now over. Mark your calendars for January 2017 to nominate your Champion!Check out previous Sustainability Champion Award winners.In recognition of the individuals and safety committees that work to promote safety and encourage safe work practices at Concordia, the Safety Champions Awards were created to acknowledge their efforts and thanks them for their hard work.Two awards will be granted, one to a Safety Committee and two to a Safety Champion.Safety Committee AwardThis award is bestowed upon a safety committee within a department, unit or faculty. It recognizes a significant contribution to improving health and safety within their area or university-wide.Safety Champion AwardThis award is given to faculty, staff or a student in recognition of his/her significant contribution to improve the health and safety within their department, faculty or university-wide, including integrating health and safety into teaching or research activities.Nomination DeadlineThe nomination period is now over. Read about previous Safety Champion winners.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversitySustainability and Safety Champions2016 Safety Champions 
                
					
                    Fine Arts Safety Committee
                
            
                
					
                    Barry Robinson
                
            
                
					
                    Keroles Riad
                
             2016 Sustainability Champions 
                
					
                    Benoit-Antoine Bacon
                
            
                
					
                    Michael Banks
                
            
                
					
                    Sylvie Lacelle
                
            
                
					
                    Olivia Oudinot
                
            
                
					
                    Janis Timm-Bottos
                
            
                
					
                    Arlene Zimmerman
                
            
                
					
                    Sustainability Nominations (COME BACK IN JANUARY 2017 to nominate your Champion!)
                
            
                
					
                    Safety NominationsGALAConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424More information on the Gala