http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2014/03/07/calling-all-volunteersacfasiscoming.htmlVersion française
 This spring, for the first time, Concordia is hosting the 82nd Congress of l’Association francophone pour le savoir (Acfas), the largest multidisciplinary gathering of knowledge and research in the French-speaking world.From May 12 to 16, more than 5,000 scholars from 30 countries will converge on the university for a series of colloquia on subjects ranging from mass spectrometry to art therapy.Behind the scenes, Concordia’s logistical team is covering everything from scheduling to signage, and it is currently recruiting student, staff and faculty volunteers.Acfas offers all participants the chance to network with researchers from a wide range of  academic disciplines, and volunteers who give the equivalent of a day of their time — between six and seven hours — will receive a free day pass to the conference. Students’ contributions will also appear on their co-curricular record. Please note that many of these roles require that the volunteer to be conversant in French.Here are several ways students, staff and faculty can get involved.
 Volunteer opportunities at Acfas1. WayfindingDo you know Concordia well? Wayfinders will be stationed across campus to direct visiting scholars to their colloquia and other events at the congress.2. Greeting and providing general informationInformation kiosks will be set up in every building. Each will come equipped with iPads that will allow people to consult the Acfas program by way of a mobile app. Kiosk-tenders will be called upon to answer questions that may range from ‘Where is my colloquium?’ to ‘Where can I find a sandwich?”3. Assisting with special eventsSeveral public events will be held on and off campus with partners such as the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts and the Phi Centre. To ensure these go smoothly, members of the team will manage line-ups, as well as greeting and offering directions to delegates.4. Serving as a floor monitorThroughout the week, monitors stationed on each floor of the Henry F. (H) Hall and John Molson School of Business (MB) Buildings will ensure that the conference’s signage stays in place and that organizers have everything they need for their colloquia to run smoothly.5. Helping exhibitors at the Salon de la rechercheOver the course of the congress, a dozen or so exhibitors will have kiosks set up in the atrium of the Engineering, Computer Science and Visual Arts Integrated Complex (EV Building). They’ll need help — especially at the beginning of the week, when they’re first setting up. This will give you a different perspective on the conference.6. Joining the media relations teamMedia relations plays a major part at any conference. Researchers are often called upon for interviews, and the volunteers in the media room will help coordinate them.7. Signing up for the Green Team (la Brigade verte)Are you passionate about sustainability? The members of the Brigade verte will help promote Concordia’s green-minded intiatives to visitors while ensuring that the university’s compost and recycling bins are where they should be, and that waste is disposed of correctly.The 82nd Congress of Acfas takes place at Concordia University from Monday, May 12 to Friday, May 16.Interested in volunteering? Email the volunteer coordinator at acfas.benevoles@concordia.ca or apply online.
        The real power of art therapy
    
        Unlocking the secrets of aging
    
        5,000 delegates in 5 days: Concordia to host landmark research conference
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityCalling all volunteers: Acfas is comingNews
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424