http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/ceramics.htmlClay offers endless creative possibilities. Throughout time, artists have been reinventing and renewing the art of ceramics. When you study ceramics, you will be able to develop technical skills in hand building, slip casting, glazing and firing, as well as engage in contemporary art practices like installation and digital imagery with your work.In Quebec’s only ceramics program, you’ll learn a specialized practice that encompasses:You’ll practise in a communal atmosphere, sharing a studio, kiln and glaze room. You’ll learn from your instructors and visiting artists as well as your peers, taking part in a movement of ideas through the studio. Above all, you will develop a personal approach to ceramics based on your own interests and a unique body of work that you can build upon after graduation.A Bachelor of Fine Arts degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background.Program option:Annual capacity(This annual capacity is a combined total for Ceramics, Fibres and Material Practices, Print Media and Sculpture. This program is only available for Fall admission.)Cegep profileNo specific profile required. However, following a profile in the arts may help applicants build a successful portfolio.Additional requirementsApplicants must submit the following directly to the Department of Studio Arts:Minimum Cut-off Averages should be used as indicators. Data may change depending on the quality of the application pool. Admission to the Faculty of Fine Arts is very competitive. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Admission to most programs is based on portfolio/audition evaluations as well as academic grades. Applicants selected for admission have normally achieved grades that exceed minimum requirements.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.March 1Certain programs have extended their deadlines. Please check program availability.N/AAdmission to this program is only available for the Fall Term.
 We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.Sample classesYou’ll take courses that address the practice, theory and history of art and ceramics and learn the current practices in the medium. You’ll engage in discussions that explore new ideas contemporary art.Course descriptionsBrowse all Studio Arts course descriptions in the Undergraduate Calendar.Student work drives the creative energy in the Faculty of Fine Arts, and you’ll have many opportunities to exhibit your work in art festivals and exhibitions at on-campus venues such as the FOFA and VAV galleries.To see what current students are working on, visit our events page.Well-equipped studios and scheduled labs give you the means to develop technical skills and discover more about ceramic materials and processes.Discover the full range of equipment available in each of these facilities.Your degree can lead to many paths such as:A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityCeramics (BFA)Related programsKey resourcesJoin the conversationDegree options
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Art in action
                
            
                
					
                    Facilities
                
            
                
					
                    After your degreeWhy study Ceramics?Program detailsUnited States  studentsBachelor of Fine Arts (BFA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Minimum cut-off averages