http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/campus-life/safety/Hazardous-Waste-Disposal/chemical-waste.htmlChemical waste is mainly generated from chemical by-products of laboratory work, as well as expired chemicals.  They include solids, liquids or gases containing or contaminated with any of the following:For more details, please refer to the different chemical waste disposal guidelines. When the hazardous chemical(s) is ready to be picked-up, the following procedure must be followed:These include mainly organic solvents, acid and base solutions, oils and aqueous solutions. The following plastic containers should be used for their disposal:These include powders, silica, sand, celite (or any other filtering media), contaminated paper, glassware, gloves or any other solid materials that have been contaminated with chemicals. The following plastic containers should be used for their disposal:• 4-litre wide-mouth container
• 20-litre white pails
 If chemical waste is generated in large quantities that cannot be easily disposed of in our regular waste containers, special barrels for bulk chemical waste are required. Please contact EHS at hazardouswaste@concordia.ca to request a barrel.Bulk Liquid Chemical Waste Container:
Volume: 45-gallon (210-liter) barrel
Material: plastic
Use: oil, organic, corrosive, aqueousBulk Solid Chemical Waste Container:
Volume: 45-gallon (210-liter) barrel with plastic lining inside
Material: metal
Use: non-corrosive chemicals and other contaminated materialsMany chemicals have expiry dates.  Expired chemicals in their original manufacturers’ bottles are accepted for disposal as long as the bottle is in good conditions and the label is legible.Empty solvent bottles can be disposed of via regular garbage as long as they are properly cleaned. To properly clean a chemical bottle:
Bottles and other glass containers used to contain or hold chemicals cannot be recycled.  4-Litre solvent glass bottles and other re-sealable chemical containers can be used for waste collection and storage, as long as they are in good condition. The labels are to be removed and the containers are clearly identified with a Concordia waste label.Unknown hazardous material cannot be accepted for disposal.
If you have unknown hazardous materials contact EHS at hazardouswaste@concordia.ca.
 All chemical waste must be placed in the appropriate container and properly labelled. The waste containers and labels are available at:
• Loyola Campus - Central Chemical Store (SP-132.02)
• SGW Campus - Environmental Health & Safety
 Environmental, Health & Safety: 
514-848-2424, ext. 4877514-848-2807
ehs@concordia.ca Staff directoryQuestions, comments or concerns?
Please fill out this formReport an injury or a near-miss
 MSDS/SDS© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityChemical Waste Disposal ProceduresContact usChemical Waste Pick-up Procedure
                
            
                
					
                    Waste Tips
                
            
                
					
                    Liquid Chemical Wastes
                
            
                
					
                    Solid Chemical Wastes
                
            
                
					
                    Bulk Liquid & Solid Chemical Wastes
                
            
                
					
                    Expired Chemicals
                
            
                
					
                    Empty Chemical Containers
                
            
                
					
                    Unknown Waste
                
            
                
					
                    Waste Containers and LabelsWhat is chemical waste?Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424