http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/offices/ctl/digital-learning/tools/clickers.htmlClickers, more formally known as Classroom Response Systems or Student Response Systems, are electronic polling devices that can provide immediate feedback on student learning. The clicker system consists of input devices (keypads or remotes), a receiver, software and a classroom projection system.During class, the instructor presents a multiple-choice question in a PowerPoint slide and the students key in their answers using their keypads. The receiver collects student responses and the software generates a bar chart showing th distribution of those responses, which you can optionally show students. It then takes a screenshot of the graph along with the question for later review or data analysis.This question is better posed as “What can clickers potentially do?”, or “What do I want clickers to do”? Here’s why:Clickers are tools, not methods. They do not automatically bring about learning. However, they do possess more enabling features than alternative feedback tools such as raising hands. For example, they collect and tally answers much faster and more accurately with less possibility for conformity (students selecting an answer chosen by the majority). They encourage every student to participate because of the double benefit of anonymity and accountability they provide – a student’s remote is identifiable to the teacher but not to other students.All the above are affordances of the technology which can only serve learning when used with solid instructional methods. For example, you can have all students participate in answering a question, but it does not necessarily mean they will seriously think about the question before answering or really engage with the course material. Similarly, if the instructor does not adjust his or her teaching based on the immediate feedback collected with clickers, the great benefit of formative assessment will be lost. So the advantages of using clickers lie in the fact that they support the implementation of sound, interactive instructional techniques.When used effectively, here are just a few of the things you can do with clickers in the classroom (Duncan, 2006):When pedagogically sound principles are applied, clickers can address the three principles of student learning summarized by McConnell (2009):Both instructors and students themselves do not have a clear idea of what they know and what they do not know. Top students tend to underestimate their performance level while low performance students tend to overestimate their own understanding. If students are unaware of their gaps, they will not work on them. With clickers, students can get immediate feedback about where they stand in their understanding both in absolute and relative terms. This increased awareness will help students monitor their own progress and learn better while instructors make adjustments to instruction as required.Clickers can be an effective tool for stimulating peer discussion. Using the Peer Instruction pedagogical model, students first answer a clicker question then try to convince their peer(s) of their own position before the poll results are displayed. After students commit to an answer, they have a more invested interest in knowing the correct answer to that question. Listening to the reasoning of their fellow students and verbalizing their own thoughts can help students correct their misconceptions, or clarify their thoughts and consolidate what they already know. Moreover, students can learn more from different perspectives than merely from one expert source. Sometimes students find the explanation of their peers easier to understand because they think in similar patterns. In addition, a student with a correct answer may have just struggled through similar difficulties, so they may be able to explain it in a way that is more accessible to other students.Clicker questions, or ConcepTests, as termed by Eric Mazur (the pioneer of the Peer Instruction model), are best designed as conceptual questions rather than those that simply require recalling facts. When clicker questions test knowledge in the grey area where there is no single best answer, students think harder and activate different cognitive processes. This will help them develop higher order thinking skills and make them better learners beyond the university walls.There is no cost for instructors to borrow an i>clicker teacher’s kit. To borrow a teacher’s kit, submit a request for equipment or contact the Service Desk.Students are required to buy the clickers (the current cost is $52.49 (new)), which they can rent or buy new or used at the Concordia bookstores.Professors who wish to buy a device may contact the Concordia bookstores for availability and pricing information.i>Clicker Faculty Getting Started ChecklistThe most well-know pedagogical model associated with clickers is Peer Instruction; however, more models are emerging. Regardless of the model, they all promote discussion and higher-order thinking skills in order to help students achieve the learning outcomes.Eric Mazur pioneered the use of clickers as a way of engaging students to think critically in an active learning setting in large classes. Watch Peer Instruction for Active Learnning to hear Mazur talk about how it came about and how it works.Beatty and his colleagues (Beatty et al., 2006) have developed a model for approaching instrcution with clicker questions based on a discussion “question cycle” as the core of the class.  This model promotes posing questions, pondering, answering, and discussion as the vehicle of learning.Additional ResourcesClicker Resource Guide: An Instructors Guide to the Effective Use of Personal Response Systems (Clickers) in Teaching prepared by University of Colorado Science Education Initiative (CU-SEI) and University of British Columbia Science Education Initiative (CWSEI).  Tri-Fold: Ready, Set, React! Getting the most out of peer instruction using clickers by Peter Newbury and Cynthia Heiner, Physics and Astronomy, UBC. The criteria of a good clicker question vary across disciplines, but there is some general agreement in the literature on what makes an effective clicker question. A good clicker question is different from a good homework or exam question (Beatty et al., 2006). Qualitative, conceptual questions that entail deep understanding and higher order thinking are preferred to quantitative and factual questions that mainly involve calculation and recall (Beatty, 2004, Crouch et al., 2007). The best questions, in terms of their potential to stimulate discussion, are those open to multiple interpretations rather than limited to one single solution (Miller et al., 2006).There are many ways to identify mistakes students commonly make.  If you have taught the same course before, you may have developed a good instinct about where students get confused. A good starting point is to analyze quiz and exam answers from previous years and to research the literature on common difficulties in your discipline (Crouch et al., 2007). If you have never taught the course before, you can ask colleagues or administer a pre-test at the beginning of each term or unit.A good way to make your questions reflective of the specific needs of your current students is to have them complete open-ended reading questions that are due shortly before class. You can even elicit student misunderstandings right in the middle of the lecture and make  “on the fly” changes to your questions as permitted. Finally, you can always note down any misunderstanding that emerges from class activities as material for future clicker questions.Takeaway: Base incorrect answers on common misconceptions.A correct answer rate of 35%-70% suggested by Eric Mazur (the pioneer of the Peer Instruction model) is generally considered an optimal level of difficulty for clicker questions. “If fewer than 35% of the students are initially correct, the question may be ambiguous, or too few students understand the relevant concepts to have a fruitful discussion (at least without some further guidance from the instructor). If more than 70% of the students answer the question correctly alone, there is little benefit from discussion” (Crouch et al., 2007, p10).Takeaway: Target your questions to mid-level studentsThere is a difference between intentional and unintended ambiguity in clicker question design. Clicker questions that test the grey area of the subject matter are beneficial to students because they force students to think in cognitively more complex ways. However, if a question is not clearly worded, it may fail to assess what it is intended to assess. Students may have chosen the wrong answer only because they misinterpreted the question.A good way to avoid misinterpretation of clicker questions is to test them out on a smaller group of students before bringing them to class. When you ask a question in class, being on the lookout for possible misinterpretations will enable you to react faster and adjust more easily when they do happen. You can even turn it to your favour if the misinterpretation offers you an opportunity to help students explore the topic deeper or from a wider perspective as it sometimes does. Being flexible is one of the qualities required of instructors teaching with clickers. Creating good questions takes practice. If you habitually refine your questions based on student feedback as you go, you will certainly improve with time.Takeaway: Word your questions carefully so as to avoid misunderstanings.Most instructors would agree that creating good clicker questions is hard work. It can be difficult to come up with plausible incorrect answers and target the questions at the appropriate level. Both are important factors that influence the quality of a question. However, the most challenging and also the most critical part of creating a clicker question, according to Beatty et al. (2006) is determining what you want your students to learn and be able to do through the question or a series of questions.Beatty ID, Leonard WJ, Gerace WJ, Dufresne RJ (2006) Question driven instruction: teaching science (well) with an audience response system. In: Banks DA (ed) Audience response systems in higher education: applications and cases. Idea Group Inc, Hershey, pp 96–115.Writing Great Clicker Questions: Faculty Workshop (video) presented by Stephanie Chasteen, University of Boulder Colorado.As the adoption of clickers spreads wider and wider on campus, you may start asking yourselthis question. The key to successful use of any instructional technology is to always begin with the diagnosis -- identify a specific challenge or need in the learning environment, and then choose a particular technology based on that specific need. One such weakness that is increasingly relevant is student engagement.Student engagement is identified by Duncan (2006) as one of the two "oldest and most fundamental challenges" faced by education, the other being keeping track of students’ state of understanding. Duncan argues that clickers can address both challenges. If you would like to increase student engagement in the classroom or know more about their thinking, clickers are a good option. However, more careful examination of your instructional goals as well as the pedagogical means by which you want to achieve those goals is needed before you ask students to pay for clickers. If you have difficulty getting students to do their pre-class reading, you are not alone. Research suggests that only 20-30% of college students complete their reading assignments on any given day (Hobson, 2004). More shockingly, in a survey done by Derek Bruff, one student out of 56 read their textbook before coming to class. When you implement clickers in the classroom, you will find it a more compelling issue because preparatory reading is critical to the successful use of clickers. A reading quiz administered either before class or at the beginning of class is a common technique employed by instructors to encourage preparatory reading. While it works for some instructors, others are hesitant to adopt it for various reasons. In the context of teaching physics, Henderson and Rosenthal (2006) discussed the challenges of creating quiz questions at the right level. Simple factual questions may reinforce the already prevalent student conception that physics is all about memorizing and plugging numbers into equations, while deep conceptual questions are not fair to students, who encounter the material for the first time. Another disadvantage of reading quiz is that it is a teacher-centered approach. Although an experienced teacher may be well aware of common student difficulties, there is always a gap between what the teacher thinks is difficult or confusing for students and the reality of student understanding. Moreover, with reading quiz, students depend on external assessment rather than the more desirable self-assessment.Understanding the reasons behind low reading compliance is the first step to finding solutions. Hobson (2004) points out that the research literature focuses excessively on the students as the source of the non-compliance problem and, therefore, seldom looks at the other side of the “teaching and learning coin” for solutions. Based on survey results that students do not perceive course readings as necessary for course success, Hobson identified some drawbacks in course design as contributing factors such as a weak relationship between course readings and academic success; no justification in the course syllabus for reading selections; no distinction between "required" readings and readings that are "required to succeed", and a mismatch between text difficulty level and student background knowledge and reading abilities. 7 Things you should Know about Clickers (Educause)Case studies, White papers and video presentations on using clickers in Higher Education (iClicker)Clicker Resource Guide: An Instructors Guide to the Effective Use of Personal Response Systems (Clickers) in Teaching prepared by University of Colorado Science Education Initiative (CU-SEI) and University of British Columbia Science Education Initiative (CWSEI).  Tri-Fold: Ready, Set, React! Getting the most out of peer instruction using clickers by Peter Newbury and Cynthia Heiner, Physics and Astronomy, UBC. Beatty, I.D., Gerace, W. J., Leonard, W.J. & Dufresne, R.J. (2006) Designing effective questions for classroom response system teaching. Retrieved from http://www.srri.umass.edu/sites/srri/files/beatty-2006deq.pdf July 6, 2015.Bruff, D. (2009). Teaching with Classroom Response Systems: Creating Active Learning Environments. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.
Crouch, C.H., & Mazur, E. (2001). Peer Instruction: Ten years of experience and results. American Journal of Physics, 69, 970-977.
Duncan, D. (2006). Clickers: A New Teaching Aid with Exceptional Promise. Astronomy Education Review, 5 (1), 70-88.Henderson, C. & Rosenthal, A. (2006). Reading Questions: Encouraging Students to Read the Text Before Coming to Class. Journal of College Science Teaching, 35 (7), 46-50.
Hobson, E.H. (2004). Getting Students to Read: Fourteen Tips. The Idea Center. Retrieved from: http://ideaedu.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Idea_Paper_40.pdfMcConnell, D.A. (2009). Clicker Pedagogy in Larger Classes: How using clickers can improve learning. Retrieved from: https://mediasite.online.ncsu.edu/online/Play/c80e89c0350845ed89a7899c61e4a757© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityClickers1. Students learn key concepts better when they have opportunities to actively monitor their understanding.
                
            
                
					
                    2. Knowledge is socially constructed and people learn best in supportive social settings when working with peers.
                
            
                
					
                    3. Students become better learners when we challenge them to answer questions that require the use of higher-order thinking skills.
                
            
                
					
                    What pedagogical models exist for using clickers?
                
            
                
					
                    What are the characteristics of good clicker questions?
                
            
                
					
                    Should I use clickers in my courses?
                
            
                
					
                    Can I use clickers to get students to read before coming to class?What are Clickers?What can clickers do?How can clickers facilitate learning?How to get set up with ClickersResourcesReferencesPeer InstructionQuestion Driven InstructionThree Common Characteristics of Good Clicker Questions1. The incorrect answers (distractors) are based on student common misconceptions or difficulties2. The level of difficulty is appropriately challenging3. The questions are unambiguously worded.Additional Resources for Creating Clicker QuestionsThe challenges of reading quizWhy do students not comply with course reading assignments?Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424