http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2016/03/09/cybersecurity-mourad-debbabi-ciise-mat-inno-morning-innovation-series.htmlVersion françaiseCybersecurity is often thought to be the science of making sure Big Brother can’t read your emails or that hackers can’t steal your bank account number.Experts like Mourad Debbabi, a professor with the Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) and university research chair in information systems security, however, know that cybercrime can have a far greater disruptive effect beyond personal security.On March 22, Debbabi will shed light on those implications in a morning conference on cybersecurity co-hosted by the Quartier de innovation de Montréal and the Jeune Chambre de commerce de Montréal.The event is part of the Mat’Inno morning innovation series. Debbabi will present alongside Jean-Marc Robert, chair of École de technologie supérieure’s (ETS) software and information technology engineering department. The conversation will be moderated by Matthieu Dugal, technology journalist for Radio-Canada.Debbabi points to a recent instance where a major cyber attack on a Ukrainian power company resulted in nearly a million people losing electricity just before Christmas.“These attacks, they’re not annoyances — they’re national security matters, they’re public safety matters,” Debbabi says, adding that they can dramatically affect crucial public services such as hospitals, police stations, banks and anywhere else with computerized systems.  Investigating these attacks and devising and refining cybersecurity reinforcements is Debbabi’s raison d’être. It’s also the mission of the CIISE, which he was hired to help shape in 2003. Debbabi says the institute is one of the first programs in Canada to fully specialize in cybersecurity.“The primary focus is to do interdisciplinary research on information systems applied to all engineering disciplines,” he says. “The department is a research institute. We don’t offer undergrad programs — just master’s and PhD programs. We are research intensive by design.”CIISE has graduated a few hundred students so far, and the resulting research cluster is hugely important for cybersecurity in Canada. Through its own work and partnerships with the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) and other institutions and companies, CIISE professors and researchers have been working on digital fingerprinting, cyberthreat intelligence and other facets of online security.Prem Sooriyakumar, who works with Concordia’s Office of Research and is helping to coordinate the event, says those in attendance can expect to hear a conversation that oscillates around the fight between a world where almost every business and government service is online, and our need to have our personal information protected.“The event is an opportunity to hear two researchers in a non-academic context discussing specific issues about cybersecurity,” Sooriyakumar says.Debbabi and his team monitor all kinds of attacks and offer a few numbers to help quantify their potential for maximum damage. There can be upward of 5,000 distributed denial of service attacks around the world on any given day, he says, and at least 30,000 attacks in any average week.“It’s a huge problem,” Debbabi says. “Sometimes it’s organized crime, sometimes it’s state sponsored, sometimes it’s hackers looking for fame. But the damage is there, regardless of who’s doing it.”
Register now for the Mat’Inno cybersecurity event. The conference begins at 7:30 a.m. on Tuesday, March 22, at 1190 Canadiens-de-Montréal Ave.The cost is $5 for Jeune Chambre de commerce de Montréal members and $10 for non-members. The price includes breakfast. 
        Apple vs. the FBI: who’s right? And how will it affect our privacy?
    
        Mourad Debbabi talks to Le Devoir
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia University‘These attacks aren’t annoyances — they’re national security matters’News
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424