http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/design-for-the-theatre.htmlTheatre designers create entire worlds onstage. Discover and develop your own unique artistic voice as you immerse yourself in the imaginative and analytical processes of communicating design ideas. You’ll learn how to conceive of and realize the visual framework of a theatrical production through the creative use of costumes, lighting and props.With classes in acting and directing, you’ll gain insights into all facets of mounting a theatrical performance and be prepared to make a fundamental contribution to the creative direction of a production.You’ll benefit from the expertise of faculty members who are professional working theatre designers. Many students take advantage of the opportunity to obtain credit for work completed for a recognized theatre.A Bachelor of Fine Arts degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background.Program option:Annual Capacity: 64 (all Theatre programs. This program is only available for Fall admission.)Cegep Profile: No specific profile required. However, following a profile in the arts may help applicants build a successful portfolio.Additional RequirementsIt is your responsibility to book an interview and submit your portfolio. When preparing your application, please remember:Portfolio Day: Twice a year, in the fall and in the winter, faculty meet one-on-one with prospective students to give feedback on their portfolios. It’s a chance to share your work with us before you apply. Get ready for the next Portfolio Day. Minimum Cut-off Averages should be used as indicators. Data may change depending on the quality of the application pool. Admission to the Faculty of Fine Arts is very competitive. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Admission to most programs is based on portfolio/audition evaluations as well as academic grades. Applicants selected for admission have normally achieved grades that exceed minimum requirements.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.March 1Certain programs have extended their deadlines. Please check program availability.N/AAdmission to this program is only available for the Fall Term.
 We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.Design for Theatre courses give you practical and theoretical knowledge of how lighting, costume, and set and props designers engage in a theatrical production.Sample classesSee a complete list of current courses in the Undergraduate Calendar.You have the opportunity to participate in a class production and may also take advantage of extracurricular opportunities to apply your talents.  You could be involved in:When is our next theatre production? Visit our news and events page to find out.Either recently created or completely renovated, our performance spaces encourage creativity. You will rehearse in smart rooms that look out over the city, perform in theatres with beautiful acoustics and great sightlines, and build sets and props in incredible design workshops. It’s hard to imagine what we can't do in these facilities:Visit our facilities page for more information on our studios, resources and venuesThe Design for the Theatre program opens up careers paths in many fields, including:A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityDesign for the Theatre (BFA)Related programsKey resourcesJoin the conversationDegree options
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Production experience
                
            
                
					
                    Facilities
                
            
                
					
                    After your degreeWhy study Design for the Theatre? Program detailsUnited States  studentsBachelor of Fine Arts (BFA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Minimum cut-off averages