http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/design.htmlA BFA in Design exposes you to the power of visual communication and the built environment. As a Design student, you will acquire the tools to make positive, informed changes in the world. Throughout your studies, you will be challenged to think critically about every creative choice you make — and consider its cultural, economic and environmental impact on everyday life.Our studios provide you with well-equipped spaces where you can unleash your creativity and abilities as a designer. Build 3D prototypes in the metal or wood shops, or enjoy access to professional equipment for specialty printing and finishing or video editing. You may even have a chance to participate in research for the Hexagram Centre. Through workshops, projects and lectures you’ll also:After graduation, you’ll leave with the knowledge, skill and passion to succeed in various branches of the cultural sector, pursue graduate studies, or form your own studio.A Bachelor of Fine Arts degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background.Program option:No specific profile required. However, following a profile in the arts may help applicants build a successful portfolio.Twice a year, in the fall and in the winter, faculty meet one–on–one with prospective students to give feedback on their portfolios. It’s a chance to share your work with us before you apply.Get ready for the next Portfolio Day.Minimum Cut-off Averages should be used as indicators. Data may change depending on the quality of the application pool. Admission to the Faculty of Fine Arts is very competitive. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Admission to most programs is based on portfolio/audition evaluations as well as academic grades. Applicants selected for admission have normally achieved grades that exceed minimum requirements.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.Sample courses include:For a list of required courses please download the Program Guide according to year of entry.For a complete list of course descriptions please consult the Undergraduate Calendar. Advanced level students have the opportunity to pursue independent study courses and internships.Schedules for courses are available on the class schedules website.Concordia University offers students the opportunity to take part in an International Student Exchange Program (ISEP) that will count for credit towards their Concordia degree, while paying the same tuition fees they do at home and possibly receiving funding. International study opportunities bring cultural diversity and enrichment through immersion in the programs of study at Concordia’s partner institutions.Internships provide students with the opportunity to pursue work in design-related industries and cultural institutions. Students have found placements in both large companies, as well as independent studios in a wide range of disciplinary areas. Consult the undergraduate calendar for details about program specific requirements and prerequisites. See internship guidelines.Students may explore specific areas of design through intensive research in an independent study. This opportunity allows students to work directly with a member of the faculty to develop a semester-long project. Consult the undergraduate calendar for details about program specific requirements and prerequisites. See independent study guidelines.In the professional experience program, you do paid work terms that last 12 to 17 weeks. As a student in this program, you’ll work at firms where you may:Read more about our professional experience programOur facilities feature professional equipment and are staffed with technical experts who will help you realize your ideas:Read more about our design facilitiesStudent work drives the creative energy in the Faculty of Fine Arts, and you’ll have many opportunities to exhibit your work in art festivals and exhibitions at on-campus venues such as the FOFA and VAV galleries.See what current students are working onDesign alumni have established careers in a range of sectors such as graphic, industrial or multi-media design. Many become creative or art directors, start their own design firms or pursue graduate studies. Some have been hired by:A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityDesign (BFA)Related ProgramsKey resourcesJoin the conversationDegree options
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Other study opportunities
                
            
                
					
                    Professional experience program (option)
                
            
                
					
                    Facilities
                
            
                
					
                    Design in action
                
            
                
					
                    After your degreeWhy study Design?Program DetailsUnited States  studentsBachelor of Fine Arts (BFA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Annual CapacityCegep StudentsAdditional RequirementsPortfolio DayMinimum cut-off averagesInternational Study OpportunitiesProfessional InternshipsIndependent Studies