http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/it/services/dprint-public.htmlThrough the DPrint service, Xerox was selected to install and service multifunction printer/scanner/photocopier devices for use across both the downtown and Loyola campuses. 50 self-serve machines are installed in public areas for use by the Concordia community as a whole. The goal of DPrint is to reduce paper waste, simplify printing, and offer consistent, high quality services across the university.  Users of the self-serve machines are required to load funds onto their student or employee card to gain access to printing, copying, or scanning services. Once funds have been added to the account, the user simply swipes their student ID card through the card reader attached to the machine they wish to use.Students, faculty, staff, and guestsA full price list for printing, scanning, or photocopying services can be found in the documentation section of this page.
24/7Black and White
Letter simplex : $0.085
Letter Duplex: $0.08/side
Legal Simplex: $0.095
Legal Duplex: $0.09/side
Ledger Simplex: $0.165
Ledger Duplex: $0.16/side
Scanning - $0.01 per pageColour
Letter Simplex: $0.29
Letter Duplex: $0.285/side
Legal Simplex: $0.30
Legal Duplex: $0.295/side
Ledger Simplex: $0.55
Ledger Duplex: $0.535/side
Scanning - $0.01 per pageSir George Williams CampusLibrary Building 
B&W (LB Atrium)
Colour (LB Atrium)Webster Library
B&W (LB 285) x4
B&W (LB 201) x2
B&W (LB 490)
B&W (LB 571)
Colour (LB 390)
Colour (LB 185)JMSB
B&W (MB 3.245)
B&W (MB 6.202)Hall Building
B&W (H 804)
B&W (H 980) x2
B&W (H 1199)
B&W (H 1299)
Colour (H 1254)EV Building
B&W (EV 1.160)
B&W (EV 5.701)
B&W (EV 8.117)
B&W (EV 9.117)
B&W (EV 12.117)
B&W (EV 15.117)VA Building
B&W (VA 299)Loyola CampusVanier Library
B&W (VL 192) x3
B&W (VL 292)
Colour (VL 101)
Colour (VL 392)CC Building
B&W (CC 203) x2
B&W (CC 207)SP Building
B&W (SP 161)There are two cash loaders located at the Sir George Williams Campus in the LB atrium (in front of the elevators and hear Tim Hortons) and at the Loyola campus, in the Vanier Library (L-VL 101).
Using the loadersFunds can also be added by credit or debit card at any campus stores location or online at: https://stores.concordia.ca/printing/dprint.html
Digital print has prepared a user guide to help with basic copying, scanning and printing functions. Read through this guide for information about general use.
Available at Campus Corner (LB-119) or Loyola Campus Retail Stores (CJ 1.422):*Note: this does not include prints/copies made incorrectly, copies from bad originals etc. Reimbursement is at the discretion of the Loyola Campus Retail Stores or Campus Corner employees and will be dealt with on a case by case basis.For all other requests or inquiries, contact:DPrint 
Phone: 514-848-2424, ext. 7613
Open a ticket: Web formStudents, faculty, staff, and guests can use the printing, copying, and scanning services.  Students: If you are a registered Concordia student with a student ID card, netname and password, you can use the DPrint self-serve devices. For more information on how to obtain a netname, visit the Netname account management page.Faculty and staff: Faculty and staff with an employee ID, netname, and password can use the DPrint self-serve devices.Guests: Visitors to the university must create a guest account to use the DPrint self-serve devices. Once created, you can start copying or scanning. To print using a guest account, you will have to obtain additional access from the circulation desk at either library.  Change for the cash loaders may be obtained from any Campus Retail Store location.
To add funds to your DPrint account, visit the Printing page of the Concordia Stores website.
After you have purchased the $5.00 'DPrint Account Top-up', the funds will be automatically credited to your account.This service is only available to Concordia students.  If you are swiping your student ID card correctly and the loader or DPrint device will not read it, your student ID card may be damaged and need to be replaced. Lost, stolen, or damaged cards can be replaced for a small fee at Birks Student Services (S-LB-185).Once you receive your new ID card, DPrint needs to transfer any balance from your old card. This can be done at Campus Corner (S-LB 119) or transfers are done automatically after 24 hours.Yes, you can still use the DPrint system even if it does not read your student ID card:To add funds at the DPrint Loaders:To use the self-serve DPrint devices:Print jobs can be submitted from library and lab computers or by using WebPrint from your personal laptop.You can choose from two different printer options:1) For black and white printing, select the ‘Mono’ print option from the computer
2) For colour printing, choose ‘WC_Colour’ print option from the computerIf you send a print job to a black and white device, it will not appear on a colour device, and vice versa.Note: if you send a print job using the Mono print option, you can only print in black and white. If you send a print job using the WC_ Colour print option, you can choose to print in colour or black and white by selecting the ‘Force Monochrome’ box on the touch screen. A sign on the top of each device identifies them as colour or black and white. A full list of DPrint self-serve devices can be found in the documentation section of this page.It is likely that you are trying to retrieve your print job from a type of device that does not match the printing option that you selected (colour vs. black and white). Check both types of machines to locate the file you wish to print.
For WebPrint, there is a 2-step approval process; once when you submit the file, and once to approve the file. If you have missed one of the approvals, your job will not appear in your queue.The simplest way is to use the ‘book copying’ function.If you want both sides (left and right) on one sheet you can use the ‘custom scan’ area functions.It is likely that you have your original on the wrong corner of the glass. Always orient your original to the corner of the glass with the green arrow.Place the original face down on the glass (corner with green arrow) and cover it with a sheet of blank paper. The devices will automatically detect the original size to be the same as the cover sheet.Yes, and there are two ways to do this:1) Use the document feeder on the top of the device. It will automatically compile a multiple-page document.
2) Use the ‘Build Jobs’ function, available under the ‘Job Assembly’ tab on the touch screen.  Turn ‘Build Job’ on and copy your documents, then select ‘Finish Job’.It is likely that you have your original on the wrong corner of the glass. Always orient your original to the corner of the glass with the green arrow.Yes, and there are two ways to do this:1) Use the document feeder on the top of the device. It will automatically compile a multiple-page scan file to send to your email.
2) Use the ‘Build Jobs’ function, available under the ‘Job Assembly’ tab on the touch screen.  Turn ‘Build Job’ on; scan your documents, then select ‘Finish Job’.

Note: there is a 10MB limit when sending a file to your email. This roughly corresponds to 100 pages of black and white text. If you are scanning at a higher resolution or scanning colour documents, the page count will be lower. To avoid reaching the 10MB limit, try sending several smaller files.The scan will be sent to the email address associated with your MyConcordia portal. Note: Gmail is the preferred address due to others (Hotmail, MSN, and Yahoo) blocking scans as SPAM.
  Page suggestions:© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityDPrint - self serve (students)IT Services
            
                IT ServicesPrice list
                
            
                
					
                    DPrint self-service machine locations
                
            
                
					
                    Loader locations
                
            
                
					
                    Student user guide
                
            
                
					
                    DPrint help
                
            
                
					
                    Who can use the DPrint self-serve printing, copying, and scanning services?
                
            
                
					
                    Where can I add money to my DPrint account?
                
            
                
					
                    Can I add money to my DPrint account online?
                
            
                
					
                    Where can I find my DPrint account balance?
                
            
                
					
                    Why won't the loader and/or DPrint device read my Student ID card?
                
            
                
					
                    Where can I go to have my student ID card replaced?
                
            
                
					
                    Can I log into a DPrint device manually?
                
            
                
					
                    How do faculty, staff, and guests authenticate on DPrint self-serve devices?
                
            
                
					
                    How do I send a print job to a DPrint device?
                
            
                
					
                    How do I select the correct DPrint device for printing?
                
            
                
					
                    How can I tell which DPrint devices print colour (WC_Colour) and which devices print black and white (Mono)?
                
            
                
					
                    I sent print jobs to the DPrint device, but they are not listed in my print queue. What do I do?
                
            
                
					
                    I selected my job to print but it still won’t print, what do I do?
                
            
                
					
                    How do I copy from a book?
                
            
                
					
                    Why do I get blank pages when I copy from the glass?
                
            
                
					
                     How do I copy odd sized originals, ID cards, or delicate paper? 
                
            
                
					
                    Can I copy more than one page at a time?
                
            
                
					
                    Why do I get blank pages when I scan from the glass?
                
            
                
					
                    Can I scan and send more than one page at a time?
                
            
                
					
                    When I scan documents to my email, which email address do they go to? 
                
            
                
					
                    Accordion panel headerWho can use it?How much does it cost?How to get itService availabilityDocumentationFAQSee alsoConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424General Printing Copying ScanningWas this page useful to you?