http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/electroacoustic-studies.htmlCreate soundscapes for visual media. Design sounds for theatre or sound effects for video games. Craft sonic environments to enhance emotions. Explore the possibilities for creativity through electroacoustic composition, sound design and recording, while training your inner and outer ear.Yes, you’ll learn about music history, theory, and composition, and also have opportunities to:A Bachelor of Fine Arts degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background.Concentrations:Annual Capacity: 30 (This program is only available for Fall admission.)Cegep Profile: No specific profile required.Additional RequirementsPlease remember:Minimum Cut-off Averages should be used as indicators. Data may change depending on the quality of the application pool. Admission to the Faculty of Fine Arts is very competitive. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Admission to most programs is based on portfolio/audition evaluations as well as academic grades. Applicants selected for admission have normally achieved grades that exceed minimum requirements.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.March 1Certain programs have extended their deadlines. Please check program availability.N/AAdmission to this program is only available for the Fall Term.
 We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.Sample classesConsult the Undergraduate Calendar for a complete list of current courses.We’re proud to offer spaces where you can unleash your creativity and your abilities as an artist. You will enjoy an array of professional facilities and equipment, including:Read more about our music facilities.Whether you’re an instrumental or voice student, jazz or classical, you can perform in both large and small ensembles. The department holds many performances throughout the year in university venues and around Montreal such as:Visit our events page for upcoming concert dates.You’ll graduate with the knowledge and discipline to think critically about your work, and the teamwork skills required for collaborating with others.  Electroacoustic Studies alumni have been recognized through awards and nominations, and they continue to place well and are hired by key players in Montreal and Canada's cultural industries. Your degree can lead to many paths such as:A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityElectroacoustic Studies (BFA)Related programsKey resourcesJoin the conversationProgram requirements & degree options
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Facilities
                
            
                
					
                    In performance
                
            
                
					
                    After your degreeWhy choose Electroacoustic Studies?Program detailsUnited States  studentsBachelor of Fine Arts (BFA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Minimum cut-off averages