http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/it/services/employee-pension-tax.htmlEmployee pension & tax statements are available as part of the Employee Self Service application in the MyConcordia portal. This application provides information for all current and former employees on their pension statements, tax slips, benefits enrolment, and retroactive pay amounts. Current and former Concordia employeesThere is no cost for this service.Access to this service is automatically granted to new employees and is available through the Faculty and Staff Services link in the MyConcordia portal.24/7Log into myconcordia.ca and click on Faculty and Staff Services from the left side menu. From there, you can access these documents under the Employee Self Service section.Access to this service is automatically granted to new employees. However, if you experience difficulty accessing this service, make a request to the Service Desk. Note that request fulfillment is dependent on approval from Human Resources.The following browsers are supported on Windows clients:The following browsers are supported on MAC OS X clients:The above browsers are for best results based on the vendor's certification requirements. However, other browsers and operating systems may function correctly. For example, although the OS Linux client is not vendor certified, Firefox has been tested on Linux without noticeable issues.Note: We have found that Firefox provides an optimal experience for most clients across all operating systems.  Page suggestions:© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityEmployee pension & tax statementsIT Services
            
                IT ServicesHow do I access my pension or tax statements?
                
            
                
					
                    What should I do if I do not have access to this service?
                
            
                
					
                    What are the supported browsers for this service?Who can use it?How much does it cost?How to get itService availabilityFAQSee alsoConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Was this page useful to you?