http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/financial-services/faq.htmlPlease refer to the Contact us section.In person: H-541 (Hall Building)Phone: 514-848-2424 ext. 4900Email: studentaccounts@concordia.ca

Please visit the Tuition and Fees website.Please visit the Financial Aid and Awards website.Financial Services forms for Students are available under Forms & guides. A complete list of University Cashier related forms are available on the intranet (Cspace) for staff and faculty.Please refer to the Contact us section.You will find the Concordia University Foundation financial statements in the Office of the Treasurer section.Please refer to the Financial statements section.Please contact one of our managers in Restricted Funds:Please contact Office of Research.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFAQJoin the ConversationHow to contact Financial Services?
                
            
                
					
                    How to contact Student Accounts?
                
            
                
					
                    Where can I get information about tuitions and fees?
                
            
                
					
                    Where can I get more information about loans and bursaries?
                
            
                
					
                    Where are the forms?
                
            
                
					
                    How to contact Financial Services?
                
            
                
					
                    Where can I find the Concordia University foundation financial statements?
                
            
                
					
                    Where can I find the Concordia University financial statements?
                
            
                
					
                    Missing a financial report?
                
            
                
					
                    Missing a progress report/qualitative report?Students FAQ External Parties FAQ Funding Agency FAQContact usPlease consult our FAQs for researchers, staff & faculty on the intranet (Cspace).
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/offices/ctl/digital-learning/online/faq.htmlNo. Under previous arrangements, some faculty members developed and taught online courses as “outside professional activities" under the CUFA collective agreement. While financially beneficial to the individual faculty members, this arrangement treated online courses as if they were separate from faculty members’ regular duties. Now, all new online teaching is integrated into a faculty member’s regular workload.Typically, faculty members receive the same workload credit they would receive when teaching the course on campus.Yes, it is possible that the course or some of the course and content could be used by another instructor.Under the old agreement, the faculty member who develops the course held the IP rights to the course material. Online courses differ somewhat from in-class courses in that the university invests a substantial amount in development, and online courses with material like recorded lectures can, theoretically, be offered in the absence of the faculty member who developed the course.  This is presently under discussion.Definitely. On a conceptual level, three types of interaction exist in any type of course: student-content, student-student and student-instructor. We tend to emphasize the last but all three types are essential for learning. For example, cooperative and peer learning are effective forms of learning between students. Technology-based approaches can emphasize this.The actual extent and nature of interaction is a design issue, not a technology issue. The primary concern among our online instructors is interaction with students - not the lack of it, but rather sometimes the overwhelming extent of it. Properly encouraged, students feel more comfortable contacting their online instructor by e-mail.Part of this is a design issue. For example, our design guidelines for online courses direct instructors and their TAs to provide consistent, regular ongoing contact between students and instructors in online courses.We strongly recommend you take the time to explore a MOOC course; they are typically free and can be started at any time. Popular MOOC sites include: Coursera and EdXWe can also provide you with demonstrations of other eConcordia courses with a variety of formats and learning activities as starting points.Consider that you will not be physically present with your students and will need to anticipate and design their new learning experience. This will require a redesign and a reconfiguration of the course content. An important key is managing student expectations.Assuming the course is already given in the classroom, it usually takes 12-14 weeks to re-design the course, adapt it to online learning activities, program the assessments, write and/or adapt the content, add/or adapt any visuals (photos, drawings, animations) and develop multimedia content as necessary (audio, video). Some professors know their material so well that they do not have written notes. During the online course development, the instructional designer will require content (for example in Word or PowerPoint format) which you may not have at this stage and hence you will need to write.If your course is new (i.e. is going through senate approval process), additional time is required for the development of the course itself, and that may require several additional weeks of effort, mostly by the professor.In terms of documentation, the team will require the course outline, samples of content material that you would like to include in the course, including student handouts, past assessments, required readings and any example of media and technology you may be already using successfully in the classroom (i.e. lecture recordings, access to your Moodle course page, etc.). A full list of required documentation will be provided upon project start.The amount of effort required will depend on the course material availability and chosen technologies, but it is a lot of work! The initial effort is steering toward re-designing the course and will require your input through several discussions and meetings with your instructional designer. When the planning stage is complete, we move into development. Your role is to provide content and material to the instructional designer and development team, and feedback and comments before signing off on the finished content. You may even be required to record audio and video in our studio! Finally, we will provide you with training on using these technologies including the eConcordia Learning Management System (LMS) which hosts the eConcordia courses.With a multitude of online tools available, such as  wikis, blogs, discussion boards, chat, video annotation and others, it can be overwhelming. However, your dedicated instructional designer will provide demonstrations from existing eConcordia courses and make recommendations based on your content, preferred teaching style and the tools’ tested effectiveness. For example, if you favour discussions in the classroom, then a discussion forum could be appropriate for the online version.Do you have a suggestion for a question that should appear in this FAQ question?Please email your question to: teaching@concordia.ca © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFAQDo I receive additional compensation for teaching online?
                
            
                
					
                    How much workload credit do I get for teaching an online course?
                
            
                
					
                    Will someone else teach a course I develop?
                
            
                
					
                    Who owns the intellectual property (IP) of the course and content created within the course?
                
            
                
					
                    Can part-time faculty develop and teach online courses?
                
            
                
					
                    Can students have meaningful interaction with instructors in online courses?
                
            
                
					
                    How can I familiarize myself with online learning?
                
            
                
					
                    How different is an online course from a traditional face-to-face course? Does this impact course design?
                
            
                
					
                    How long is the course development process?
                
            
                
					
                    What does the development team require from me?
                
            
                
					
                    How much time should I expect to invest in this effort?
                
            
                
					
                    How do I choose the best tools for my course?Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424