http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2016/08/17/green-space-opens-for-the-entire-concordia-community.html
Where can you go for a moment of calm downtown?When you want a reprieve from the hustle and bustle of the big city, feel the grass between your toes in the back garden of the Grey Nuns Residence —  a majestic green space accessible to the Concordia community.During a recent lunch hour, creative writing student Molly Cockburn is sitting in the garden reading A Complicated Kindness by Miriam Toews. “I like the sound of water trickling into the pond,” she says.“To have an oasis like this in the middle of the city is pretty spectacular — especially if you’re living at the residence. Then, it’s basically your backyard.”
 
Beginning on September 1, the entire Concordia community will have access to the  green space from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. on weekdays. Faculty, staff, students, alumni and retirees can enjoy the garden by presenting valid ID at the point of entry, located off the parking lot at 1200 Guy Street.
 “It’s a 7,000 square-metre space that we designed in collaboration with Athletics and recreation, Hospitality and Security,” says Pat Pietromonaco, senior director of property management for Facilities Management. “We integrated it into Quartier Concordia very thoughtfully.”Pietromonaco’s team refreshed and refurbished the existing garden with “love and care,” pruning the trees, dredging the pond and replanting the greenery on the water feature’s perimeter.Plus, they added a new basketball net and volleyball court, along with circuit training bars. There are 21 benches, styled to match those along the west side of the Henry F. Hall Building, and 16 multi-coloured picnic tables. 
 
“We see this private green space as a crown jewel on the downtown campus,” says Roger Côté, vice-president of Services. “It’s a contemplative place in Quartier Concordia where the community can go to slow down, reflect, do some tai chi or yoga, play Frisbee and enjoy the outdoors. It’s a three-season space now, but next we’ll think about how to optimize it for the winter.”
On opening day, September 1, wear comfortable clothing and join a game of “beach” volleyball between 12 and 2 p.m. Lemonade will be served and Stingers athletes will be on hand to partake in the fun!Learn more about the Grey Nuns Residence, with its 600 beds for undergraduate students on Sir George Williams Campus. 
        Meet the artist … in a Concordia residence
    
        Quartier Concordia: from the sacred to the secular
    
        Grey Nuns Building officially opens its doors
    
        60-year-old stamps uncovered in the walls of the Grey Nuns Residence
    
        The fascinating history behind Concordia’s new student residence 
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityThe Grey Nuns garden: ‘A crown jewel on the downtown campus’News
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsLatest storiesMost popularOPINION: Big Pharma’s troubles are good news for innovationConcordia receives funding for 5 Canada Research ChairsThe fight against fake newsConcordia receives $2 million to advance smart-grid technology‘Student success is more gratifying than any prize’13 essential tips for exam successTo nap or not to nap? Sleep tips for ConcordiansJason Camlot wins the Donald Gray Prize for best Victorian Studies essay‘We are conducting research in a living lab’What's it like to meet  the Oracle of Omaha?21 benches, 16 colourful picnic tablesFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424