http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/intermedia.htmlPlay with technology. Take it apart. Understand it. Then use it to invent new combinations of artistic content, practice, and presentation across electronic, video or performance media. If you want to be a pioneer, exploring relationships between emerging and existing media technologies and the fine arts, then this program is for you.You decide how to combine your study: mash up sound art, robotics, performance, and immersive environments, or just focus on one or two of these elements. Learn programming code to create new technologies. Or, instead of going digital, pull concepts from dance, theatre, or sculpture into performance art.Above all, you must experiment, be curious, and explore. Our chroma-key studio, video editing suites and selection of equipment are impressive and will support your practice.A Bachelor of Fine Arts degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background.Program option:Annual capacity(This program is only available for Fall admission)Cegep profileNo specific profile required. However, following a profile in the arts may help applicants build a successful portfolio.Additional requirementsApplicants must submit the following directly to the Department of Studio Arts:Minimum Cut-off Averages should be used as indicators. Data may change depending on the quality of the application pool. Admission to the Faculty of Fine Arts is very competitive. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Admission to most programs is based on portfolio/audition evaluations as well as academic grades. Applicants selected for admission have normally achieved grades that exceed minimum requirements.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.March 1Certain programs have extended their deadlines. Please check program availability.N/AAdmission to this program is only available for the Fall Term.
 We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.Sample classesCourse descriptionsBrowse all Studio Arts course descriptions in the Undergraduate Calendar.Student work drives the creative energy in the Faculty of Fine Arts, and you’ll have many opportunities to exhibit your work in art festivals and exhibitions at on-campus galleries and performance venues.To see what current students are working on, visit our events page.Our facilities feature professional equipment and are staffed with technical experts who will help you realize your ideas:Discover the full range of equipment available in each of these facilities.You will graduate with the knowledge and discipline required for a creative and productive life. You’ll have creative problem-solving skills, know how to think critically about your work, and have the necessary leadership skills required for entrepreneurial endeavours. Your degree can lead to many paths such as:A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityIntermedia (Video, Performance and Electronic Arts) (BFA)Related programsKey resourcesJoin the conversationDegree options
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Arts in action
                
            
                
					
                    Facilities
                
            
                
					
                    After your degreeWhy study Intermedia?Program detailsUnited States  studentsBachelor of Fine Arts (BFA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Minimum cut-off averages