http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/offices/ctl/digital-learning/tools/lecture-capture.htmlLecture capture is a technology which allows professors to record what happens during their class and share it digitally. Here are a few examples of what can be recorded:The recordings can be usedDepending on the way in which you record your lectures, they can be used in different ways. Lectures recorded in-class are typically used as a review tool for students and might be used in subsequent years by the instructor. Recordings made out-of-class are typically produced to put online to support online, flipped or blended learning. Isabelle Dostaler (Professor, JMSB) online lecture for her Blended COMM 210  (Camtasia) Concordia offers two different lecture capture solutions depending on your requirements.1. Panopto
Panopto is a web-based solution that is installed on select classroom computers across both campuses. This solution is primarily used to record lectures you give to students throughout the semester.2. Camtasia
Camtasia is a software-based solution that instructors buy and install on their own computers in order to record lectures outside of class. These can be used in blended learning or for the flipped classroom approach to teaching.The table below will help you determine which tool best suits your needs.Panopto is currently in a pilot phase at Concordia. To participate in the pilot and use lecture capture in any of your courses, instructors need to register with the CTL at teaching@concordia.ca, though the number of participants is limited.To record lectures, professors must use the podium computers in classrooms on which the software is already installed. The service is currently installed in 15 classrooms (see list of rooms).The professor starts recording using the podium computer at the beginning of class session. Immediately after stopping the recording, the video is uploaded to a server, allowing the professor to add a link to Moodle for use by his/her students.Recording live lectures is especially useful for large lectures with many students. Furthermore, it is best suited to classes that primarily rely on instructor-led lectures accompanied by slides or documents.  Because the microphone is limited to the instructor, highly interactive classes do not lend themselves well to this software because it could miss many of the comments.  Similarly, classes that involve much writing on a chalkboard or white board need to be adapted to a document camera for easiest recording.Related policyWhen recording voice or image of anyone in the classroom other than the instructor, instructors must receive signed release forms from people.  Instructors should include a statement of use either on their course outline or in the Moodle site, or both. Please review the Lecture Capture guidelines.Lecture Capture course outline insertGuest lecturer recording consent and release formFor more information on using Panopto, please see the Panopto IITS Services page.Camtasia is currently in a pilot phase at Concordia. A limited number of licences are available to instructors for Camtasia. The instructor installs the Camtasia software on their computer. Once installed, professors are able start recording anything on their computer screen along with audio or even video from their webcam. Lectures are saved directly to the instructor's laptop.  It can then be uploaded to Moodle for students to view prior to the class session.Camtasia has very powerful editing capabilities for those who want to take lecture capture to the next level. In addition to editing the video content, it is also possible to add in text, highlight certain parts of the screen amongst other features.Camtasia is generally used to record lectures that you are not giving face-to-face at Concordia since it is not installed on any classroom computers. It was introduced as a pilot solution for those instructors who wanted to record lectures or screen-based demonstrations using their personal computers in their offices or at home. These lectures are typically recorded for Blended learning courses, where some of the instructional activities are moved online, and the flipped classroom, where students watch pre-recorded lectures before coming to class in order to participate in activities that apply the theories and concepts form the lecture.Related policyWhen recording voice or image of anyone  other than the instructor, instructors must receive signed release forms from anyone whose voice or image is included in the video.  Instructors should include a statement of use either on their course outline or in the Moodle site, or both. Please review the Lecture Capture guidelines.Camtasia guidelinesCourse outline insertGuest lecturer consent & release formFor more information on using Camtasia, please see the Camstasia IITS Services page.Isabelle Dostaler (Professor, JMSB) online lecture for her Blended COMM 210  (Camtasia)Resources for Using CamtasiaCamtasia is available for practice or for recording in the following rooms:
– SGW campus, LB 508
– Loyola campus, CC 208Practice rooms must be booked in advanced with the Service Desk.How-to VideosTechsmith provides a series of short how-to videos for performing specific tasks in CamtasiaCamtasia is available for practice or for recording in the following rooms:– SGW campus, LB 508
– Loyola campus, CC 208Practice rooms must be booked in advanced with the Service Desk.You can also use other widely-available tools to record lectures:These options require you to save the videos to your computer and upload them to Moodle or a video hosting site like YouTube to make them accessible to students.If you have recorded your in-class lectures in a previous or current term, you can edit these to use in future classes. However, if you use your previously recorded in-class lectures in a different section, please note that there are guidelines on using the voice and images of students. If you captured any students (i.e. asking or answering questions, etc.), you will need to edit these out in order to use re-use them.Lecture Capture guidelinesIf you use Panopto to record your in-class lectures, your recordings are automatically uploaded to the Concodia Panopto server. You can access these recordings to edit or download from the Panopto administrative panel. Links to these recordings are made available to students through a specially-configured block in Moodle.If you are pre-recording lectures using Camtasia, the videos are initially stored on your own computer. You decide how to make the videos available to students. Some options include: uploading them as files to Moodle, uploading to YouTube, and posting them to a personal web site.Which ever method you choose, please be aware of any copyright materials you may have included in your slides or captured through screen-sharing.Yes. You can add and remove sections of your video in both Panopto and Camtasia.Camtasia has very powerful editing capabilities that allows for annotating sections of videos by highlighting, adding callouts and text.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityLecture CaptureHow to use lecture capture in your courses
                
            
                
					
                    Where can I pre-record a class if I don’t have Camtasia?
                
            
                
					
                    Where can I get support for using Camtasia?
                
            
                
					
                    What if I want to record a lecture for flipped or blended learning but I don't have Camtasia?
                
            
                
					
                    Can I reuse the lecture captures or do I need to make new ones each term?
                
            
                
					
                    Where do the lectures I record go?
                
            
                
					
                    Can I edit my videos?The Benefits of Lecture CaptureLecture Capture tools at ConcordiaWhat kind of courses and classes benefit most from this technology?What kind of courses and classes benefit most from this technology?Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Example of a lecture recorded using lecture captureChoosing the right lecture capture tool for your needsHow it worksHow it worksExample of a lecture recorded using Camtasia