http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2014/02/11/mastering-the-scienceofbusiness.html
The John Molson School of Business (JMSB) has long ranked among Canada’s foremost management schools. Its graduates at both the undergraduate and graduate levels lead some of the country’s most prominent, innovative companies.But while JMSB is, of course, renowned for its master of business administration, it also boasts a range of other graduate streams, including a master of science, which recently went from offering specializations in finance, management and marketing to distinct programs for all three.We spoke with Marie Lyster, a student recruitment officer for JMSB’s graduate programs, to learn more about the new MSc programs.The MSc in Administration recently went from being one program with three specializations to three separate programs. Why is that?Marie Lyster: The program structure has not changed, but the new names now better represent the programs — their content, curriculum and business area of specialization. The previous naming may have been somewhat confusing for students, as it suggested a broader range of content — i.e. administration — whereas the focus of the MSc programs is to train experts in their chosen, specific fields of business. We offer programs in finance, management and marketing.Some prospective students may not know the difference between an MBA and an MSc. What is the MSc? How is it different from an MBA?ML: The MSc at JMSB prepares a student to become an expert in one business area; it teaches advanced analytical and technical skills, with an emphasis on research. The MSc programs are accordingly designed with few core courses and more specialized seminars.The John Molson MBA is a general business degree that emphasizes broad-based managerial skills that are not focused on a specific area. The MBA program has a large number of core courses, few electives and no compulsory research requirement.Is an MSc for students who want to carry on in academia, or for those who want to work in industry?ML: Both. The program provides a solid theoretical base for advanced research, so those who wish to pursue their studies at the doctoral level see the MSc as a fast track to a PhD program and an academic career.Students who want to work in industry do so as experts within their area of specialization. They find work as specialists in fields as diverse as human resources and investment management. Many of our graduates have built successful careers in research or analysis in the private sector or in government.What is the typical educational and professional background of an MSc student?ML: Most students don’t have any work experience when they enter the program. Many are business graduates, but many are not. Apart from commerce, a lot of students come to the MSc with economics, mathematics, psychology, anthropology, and sociology backgrounds, but it really doesn’t matter what one’s undergraduate discipline is — the programs are open to all students with an undergraduate degree.The John Molson School of Business is holding information sessions about its MSc programs in Montreal, Quebec; Quebec City, Quebec; and Ottawa, Ontario.The sessions scheduled for Monday, February 10 at 5:30 p.m. in Room MB-10.302 of the John Molson School of Business (MB) Building (1450 Guy St.) on the Sir George Williams Campus at Concordia; Wednesday, February 12 at 4:30 p.m. in Ottawa, at the Novotel hotel (33 Nicholas St.); Thursday, February 13 at 5:30 p.m. in Quebec City, at the Delta Québec hotel (690 René-Lévesque Blvd. E.); Saturday, February 15 at 12 p.m. in the John Molson School of Business (MB) Building (1450 Guy St.) on the Sir George Williams Campus; and Monday, March 10 at 5:30 p.m. in Room MB-10.302 of the MB Building (1450 Guy St.) on the Sir George Williams Campus. Online sessions will also be offered.Register for an in-person or online information session about JMSB’s MSc programs.
  
        How Concordia’s business school became an art gallery
    
        Concordia student to be ‘CEO for a day’
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityMastering the science of businessNews
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424