http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/music.htmlThere has never been a culture without music — it nourishes our hearts and minds and stirs our souls. If your goal is to immerse yourself in the making of music, Concordia’s Major in Music program offers you the flexibility to control your own future — whether you want to compose, write songs, perform, manage artists, or become a music therapist.Taking classes and working in our studios and rehearsal spaces will give you the skills, knowledge, discipline and experience you will need. After your first year you may transfer into the Specialization in Music Performance or Composition programs, or continue in the Major for the most flexibility. You will have the opportunity to:After graduation you’ll have the knowledge, skill and passion to succeed as a musician or pursue graduate studies.A Bachelor of Fine Arts degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background.ConcentrationsMusic specializationsAfter the successful completion of first-year core courses (30 credits), students in the Major in Music program may apply for transfer into one of two specialization in Music (66 credit) programs:Annual Capacity: 20 (fall admission only)Cegep Profile: No specific profile required.Additional RequirementsMusic admissions package submission deadline: March 1Applicants must apply online before submitting the music admissions package.We need to know more about you than the general University application provides.It is the applicant’s responsibility to upload the video audition online by the prescribed deadline. Test results are sent after the audition has been evaluated. See additional admissions requirements for audition instructions.Please remember:For more information on these additional requirements, please read the following: Admission to the Minor in Music is only open to students who are already in a degree program at Concordia University. It is not open to new applicants. For information on how to add the Minor in Music, look for the Internal transfer of program request.Minimum Cut-off Averages should be used as indicators. Data may change depending on the quality of the application pool. Admission to the Faculty of Fine Arts is very competitive. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Admission to most programs is based on portfolio/audition evaluations as well as academic grades. Applicants selected for admission have normally achieved grades that exceed minimum requirements.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.March 1Certain programs have extended their deadlines. Please check program availability.N/AAdmission to this program is only available for the Fall Term.
 We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.Sample classesConsult the Undergraduate Calendar for a complete list of current Music courses.We’re proud to offer spaces where you can unleash your creativity and your abilities as an artist. You will enjoy an array of professional facilities and equipment, including:Read more about our music facilities.Whether you’re an instrumental or voice student, jazz or classical, you can perform in both large and small ensembles. The department holds many performances throughout the year in university venues and around Montreal such as:Visit our events page for upcoming concert dates.Your hard work while at Concordia will give you the knowledge and discipline to further  your solo work, plus the teamwork skills to collaborate with others. Our alumni compose, perform, tour, produce original CDs, write for theatre, dance, film, TV and video games; their cultural work has been recognized through awards and prizes.  Your degree can lead to many paths such as:A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityMusic (BFA)Related programsKey resourcesJoin the conversationDegree options
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Facilities
                
            
                
					
                    In performance
                
            
                
					
                    After your degreeWhy study Music?Program detailsUnited States  studentsBachelor of Fine Arts (BFA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Minor in MusicMinimum cut-off averages