http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/offices/cfo/fs/2016/04/26/new-hotel-booking-process.html
Financial Services would like to inform all staff and faculty at Concordia of a change in the process for booking rooms at the university’s preferred local hotels.Direct billing to Concordia for hotel rooms is no longer available. This process was modified in order to adhere to external funding agency guidelines and the university’s own validation procedures.As of May 1, 2016, staff and faculty will have to provide a credit card to the hotel over the phone at the time of reservation. The credit card, which can be corporate or personal, will be used to hold the reservation and may be used to to pay the bill at checkout. In order to complete the booking, the staff or faculty member making the reservation will have to complete a credit card authorization form and email it to the hotel. Should the staff or faculty member choose to have the guest pay the final bill at checkout, a credit card authorization form need not be completed, but a credit card must still be provided to hold the booking.An expense report can subsequently be submitted to claim the hotel expense. The hotel will provide the necessary form by email during the reservation process.
For further information regarding Concordia’s new hotel booking process, contact Frederick Clayman, manager of Accounts Payable, by email, or by phone at: 514-848-2424, ext. 4763, or contact Angela Luciano, project accountant manager of Restricted Funds, by email or by phone at ext. 4924. Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityNew Hotel Booking ProcessFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/offices/cfo/fs/2016/04/26/new-hotel-booking-process.html
Financial Services would like to inform all staff and faculty at Concordia of a change in the process for booking rooms at the university’s preferred local hotels.Direct billing to Concordia for hotel rooms is no longer available. This process was modified in order to adhere to external funding agency guidelines and the university’s own validation procedures.As of May 1, 2016, staff and faculty will have to provide a credit card to the hotel over the phone at the time of reservation. The credit card, which can be corporate or personal, will be used to hold the reservation and may be used to to pay the bill at checkout. In order to complete the booking, the staff or faculty member making the reservation will have to complete a credit card authorization form and email it to the hotel. Should the staff or faculty member choose to have the guest pay the final bill at checkout, a credit card authorization form need not be completed, but a credit card must still be provided to hold the booking.An expense report can subsequently be submitted to claim the hotel expense. The hotel will provide the necessary form by email during the reservation process.
For further information regarding Concordia’s new hotel booking process, contact Frederick Clayman, manager of Accounts Payable, by email, or by phone at: 514-848-2424, ext. 4763, or contact Angela Luciano, project accountant manager of Restricted Funds, by email or by phone at ext. 4924. Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityNew Hotel Booking ProcessNews
            
                NewsFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424