http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/painting-drawing.htmlPainting and Drawing fuses traditional expertise and technique with cutting-edge contemporary approaches to artmaking. In this program, you can study virtually every approach to painting and drawing, from traditional oil painting to graphic novel production and 3D spatial installation. Your technical, formal and conceptual skills will be developed through focused studio production and instruction in theory, art history and cultural studies.Drawing incorporates a wide array of materials and explores gesture, mark making, the construction of visual space, as well as symbol and storytelling. In Painting classes, you will explore colour use, paint application, tools and techniques along with the formal language of painting and its use in abstract, figurative and hybrid/expanded modes.As active professional artists engaged at both an international and local level, our faculty bring insight into the exciting and complex world of art. You will gain the ability to think creatively and critically and to materialize your ideas in visual form. These skills sets, along with the development of visual literacy and expertise, can be applied to multiple professions in the visual arts. A Bachelor of Fine Arts degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background.Program option:See detailed degree requirements in the Undergraduate Calendar.Annual capacity(This program is only available for Fall admission)Cegep profileNo specific profile required. However, following a profile in the arts may help applicants build a successful portfolio.Additional requirementsApplicants must submit the following directly to the Department of Studio Arts:Minimum Cut-off Averages should be used as indicators. Data may change depending on the quality of the application pool. Admission to the Faculty of Fine Arts is very competitive. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Admission to most programs is based on portfolio/audition evaluations as well as academic grades. Applicants selected for admission have normally achieved grades that exceed minimum requirements.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.March 1Certain programs have extended their deadlines. Please check program availability.N/AAdmission to this program is only available for the Fall Term.
 We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.Sample classesYou’ll take courses that address the practice, theory and history of art and master the techniques of painting and drawing. You’ll also take seminar courses that explore new ideas and imagine the frontiers of contemporary art.Course descriptionsBrowse all Studio Arts course descriptions in the Undergraduate Calendar.Faculty membersLearn about our Studio Arts faculty.Student work drives the creative energy in the Faculty of Fine Arts, and you’ll have many opportunities to exhibit your work in art festivals and exhibitions at on-campus venues such as the FOFA and VAV galleries.To see what current students are working on, visit our events page.You will work in brightly lit, well-ventilated studios and will have access to our teaching studios, open painting studios and the Sean B. Murphy Open Drawing Studio. The available studio equipment includes:Students also have access to Concordia's Core Technical Centres, which include metal and wood workshops, maquette and rapid prototyping labs. Discover the full range of equipment available in each of these facilities.Your degree can lead to many paths such as:A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityPainting and Drawing (BFA)Related programsKey resourcesJoin the conversationDegree options
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Arts in action
                
            
                
					
                    Facilities
                
            
                
					
                    After your degreeWhy study Painting and Drawing?Program detailsUnited States  studentsBachelor of Fine Arts (BFA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Minimum cut-off averages