http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/print-media.htmlPrintmaking plants one foot in the past and the other firmly in the future. It connects you to artisanal and contemporary concepts and techniques that mix the ancient world, the renaissance, pop culture and the digital age. Working in some of the best facilities in Canada with committed artists and master printers, you’ll explore ideas and learn processes that inspire innovative work.As your artistic skills flourish, community develops. Students help one another, sharing presses, ink and a commitment to the printed image. By combining studio practice with history, theory, and interdisciplinary approaches, you embrace the contemporary.You’ll graduate as a practising and exhibiting artist, ready to tap into the contemporary fine arts community nationally and internationally. You will be equipped with the skills to work in community print studios or in a private atelier.A Bachelor of Fine Arts degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background.Concentrations:In Print Media you will investigate the meaningful relationships that exist between the technologies of reproduction, individual expression and contemporary society.The program is designed with fewer credits so you can combine several print techniques and garner more skills in each studio. You’ll gain experience in the following print techniques:Explore the intersections of interdisciplinary work and foster your individual artistic development through a range of special topics and theory courses.This program encourages experimental and innovative thinking and the development of a solid critical understanding of your work in relation to contemporary culture.See detailed degree requirements in the Undergraduate Calendar.Annual capacity(This annual capacity is a combined total for Ceramics, Fibres and Material Practices, Print Media and Sculpture. This program is only available for Fall admission.)Cegep profileNo specific profile required. However, following a profile in the arts may help applicants build a successful portfolio.Additional requirementsApplicants must submit the following directly to the Department of Studio Arts:Minimum Cut-off Averages should be used as indicators. Data may change depending on the quality of the application pool. Admission to the Faculty of Fine Arts is very competitive. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Admission to most programs is based on portfolio/audition evaluations as well as academic grades. Applicants selected for admission have normally achieved grades that exceed minimum requirements.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.March 1Certain programs have extended their deadlines. Please check program availability.N/AAdmission to this program is only available for the Fall Term.
 We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.Sample classesYou’ll take courses that address the practice, theory and history of print media. You will choose from special topics courses that change from year to year, exploring the frontiers of contemporary print arts, as well as independent study courses and internship opportunities.Course descriptionsBrowse all Studio Arts course descriptions in the Undergraduate Calendar.Faculty membersLearn about our Studio Arts faculty.Student work drives the creative energy in the Faculty of Fine Arts, and you’ll have many opportunities to exhibit your work in art festivals and exhibitions at on-campus venues such as the FOFA and VAV galleries.To see what current students are working on, visit our events page.Our fully equipped, spacious and sunlit studios and facilities are among the best in Canada.Discover the full range of equipment available in each of these facilities.Your degree can lead to many paths such as:A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityPrint Media (BFA)Related programsKey resourcesJoin the conversationDegree options
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Arts in action
                
            
                
					
                    Facilities
                
            
                
					
                    After your degreeWhy study Print Media?Program detailsUnited States  studentsBachelor of Fine Arts (BFA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Minimum cut-off averages