http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/campus-life/safety/training.htmlEnvironmental Health & Safety (EHS) provides safety training free to anyone with a valid Concordia ID. Participants are required to register (Refer to Training Calendar below).When you register, a confirmation message will appear on your screen indicating your registration was submitted. You will receive a confirmation via email. Please note: If less than 5 participants are registered for any given training session, EHS reserves the right to cancel the session. Anyone registered will be notify directly. Every attempt will be made to ensure that participants are notified at least seven calendar days prior to the training session that is cancelled.EHS may acknowledge your training or certification obtained from other institutions. For more information, please contact us by email at ehs@concordia.caIf you unable to attend the training session please email EHS at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled date at ehs@concordia.ca.Please Note: Cancellations made by telephone will not be accepted. Students may now add EHS provided safety trainings to their Co-Curricular Record.The Co-Curricular Record (CCR) is an official Concordia University document that highlights your involvement in student life at Concordia. Having a CCR can provide several benefits, such as help in obtaining grants or bursaries, getting into graduate school or adding skills to your resume. Visit the Concordia University Co-Curricular Record website for more details.
The following guide (pdf document) outlines the process of adding your EHS provided safety training to your CCR. Please note you will also need to send a copy of the EHS training certificate to cocurricular@concordia.ca as proof of successful completion.On February 11, 2015, the Government of Canada released the new Hazardous Products Regulations (HPR), modifying WHMIS to incorporate the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS) for workplace chemicals. This modified WHMIS is referred to as "WHMIS 2015". A transition period permits suppliers, importers and distributors of hazardous chemicals, as well as employers with such chemicals in their workplaces, to comply with either the WHMIS program first implemented in 1988 (WHMIS 1988) or the newly revised WHMIS program, incorporating the GHS (WHMIS 2015). The transition period began on February 11, 2015 and will end on December 1, 2018.Since both WHMIS programs (WHMIS 1988 and 2015) are valid during the transition period (Feb 2015 to Dec 2018),workers and students are required to obtain training for both WHMIS versions from their employer. EHS will gradually offer WHMIS 2015 training sessions to Faculty, students and staff throughout the next few years, starting in September 2015, to ensure that everyone get trained by December 2018.However, the EHS requirements for the previous WHMIS 1988 program are still in place, meaning that any staff, faculty or students working with chemicals must have a valid WHMIS for Laboratory Personnel training. A valid WHMIS for Laboratory Personnel training (taken less than 3 year ago) is also the prerequisite for anyone who wishes to attend a WHMIS 2015 training session.The Safety Training List provides you with a description of all training sessions offered by EHS.  The following links will redirect you to the available EHS training sessions:To attend a training session you must have a Concordia netname and password to login. If you are having trouble logging in send an email including your Concordia netname to ccw-support@concordia.ca.Following the training session you will have a test to complete. Please refer the EHS calendar and select one of the EHS – Test Sessions.Students are permitted to reference written notes during the test(s).  Printed or electronic copies of the slide presentation(s), either being in full length or in screenshots and/or snapshots, are not permitted when taking the test.1.  Download the App: Android go to Play Store, iPhone go to App Store2.  Download ResponseWare by Turning Technologies (logo on left)3.  Select region - North/South America4.  Join Session- Session ID will be provided by the presenter   Mandatory for individuals working with corrosive substances in laboratories of the Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE).Highly recommended for anyone working with corrosive substances in research and/or teaching laboratories (students, staff, supervisors and visitors) and anyone overseeing spaces where these products are used.2 sessions of 3 hours (Risk Assessment and SOP writing)1 lab session (hands-on practice; optional)Mandatory for individuals working with engineered nanomaterials in ENCS laboratories and anyone overseeing spaces where these materials are used.Highly recommended for everyone working with nanomaterials in research and teaching laboratories (students, staff, supervisors and managers). Supervisors play a central role in workplace health and safety. They have front-line responsibility to protect the health and well-being of their employees and to ensure that the workplace safe. This training will review the role and legal duties of supervisors and help them understand what it means to be duly diligent. This training provides supervisors with the information they need to improve workplace health and safety, demonstrate due diligence, and foster a positive safety culture. Topics covered include: health and safety legislation, the rights and responsibilities of employers, supervisors and employees, Concordia’s safety policies, and workplace inspection and injury investigation. Upon completion of this course you will: understand your health and safety responsibilities and how to meet these responsibilities; be able to take leadership in implementing and promoting the university’s safety programs; and understand consequences of non-compliance.PLEASE NOTE: This training is targeted to academic staff. If you are non-academic staff, please register for Supervisor’s Health Safety Responsibilities Training – Non-Academic Staff. Supervisors play a central role in workplace health and safety. They have front-line responsibility to protect the health and well-being of their employees and to ensure that the workplace safe. This training will review the role and legal duties of supervisors and help them understand what it means to be duly diligent. This training provides supervisors with the information they need to improve workplace health and safety, demonstrate due diligence, and foster a positive safety culture. Topics covered include: health and safety legislation, the rights and responsibilities of employers, supervisors and employees, Concordia’s safety policies, and workplace inspection and injury investigation. Upon completion of this course you will: understand your health and safety responsibilities and how to meet these responsibilities; be able to take leadership in implementing and promoting the university’s safety programs; and understand consequences of non-compliance.PLEASE NOTE: This training is targeted to non-academic staff. If you are academic staff, please register for Supervisor’s Health Safety Responsibilities Training –Academic StaffIf the course you need is not currently listed on our calendar, contact EHS at ehs@concordia.ca. EHS will review your request and will contact you concerning your specific training needs.
For training related to Emergency Management (Fire, First Aid, Emergency Preparedness, etc), please click here.Concordia University requires contractors working on University premises to complete our video training prior to commencing work.

Please register yourself for the video training.Once the registration is complete, you will be taken to the video. At the end of the video, your completion code will display. Please enter it as it is displayed to confirm your training. 

For training related to Emergency Management (Fire, First Aid, Emergency Preparedness, etc), please click here.
Environmental, Health & Safety: 
514-848-2424, ext. 4877514-848-2807
ehs@concordia.ca Staff directoryQuestions, comments or concerns?
Please fill out this formReport an injury or a near-miss
 MSDS/SDS    For the detailed procedure, refer to EHS-SOP-009© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversitySafety trainingContact usRegistration EHS External Training Recognition
                
					
                    Cancellation Policy ( Cancellation Fee: $25.00)
                
            
                
					
                    Co-Curricular Record
                
            
                
					
                    WHMIS 2015-Registration
                
            
                
					
                    Safety Training List and Moodle Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Turning Point
                
            
                
					
                    Corrosive Substances
                
            
                
					
                    Biosafety Training
                
            
                
					
                    Biosafety Refresher
                
            
                
					
                    ENCS "Hands-On" Lab Safety
                
            
                
					
                    Hazardous Waste Disposal for Laboratory Personnel
                
            
                
					
                    Hazardous Materials Minor Spill Response Training
                
            
                
					
                    Laboratory Awareness Training for Auxiliary Staff
                
            
                
					
                    Laboratory Awareness Training for Facilities Management
                
            
                
					
                    Laboratory Awareness for IITS (by request)
                
            
                
					
                    Laser Safety Training
                
            
                
					
                    Radiation Safety Training
                
            
                
					
                    Radiation Safety Refresher
                
            
                
					
                    Radiation Safety-Laboratory Tool Pack
                
            
                
					
                    Radiation Safety-Sealed Sources and X-Ray Devices 
                
            
                
					
                    Safe Handling of Blood Training
                
            
                
					
                    Safe Handling of Nanomaterials
                
            
                
					
                    Safe Use of Biological Safety Cabinet Training
                
            
                
					
                    Supervisor's Health & Safety Responsibilities- Academic Staff
                
            
                
					
                    Supervisor’s Health & Safety Responsibilities Training – Non-Academic Staff
                
            
                
					
                    Transportation of Dangerous Goods (TDG) Training
                
            
                
					
                    Workplace Hazardous Materials Information System (WHMIS) Training
                
            
                
					
                    Workplace Hazardous Materials Information System (WHMIS 2015;Transition)
                
            Training ProvidersConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/campus-life/emergency/training.htmlThe Office of Emergency Management is committed to promoting emergency preparedness and offers several training programs designed to better prepare individuals to deal with emergency situations both at home and in the workplace and most of our courses are open to the general public.The Concordia Emergency Responce Team (CERT) are  staff and student volunteers who are trained to assist during emergency situations that occur on campus.  CERT are trainned to assist during building evacuations and other emergencies that could occur at Concordia.  The 4 hour orientation session provides knowlkedge of the role and responsibilities of CERT during an emergency and how to respond to different emergencies on campus. for more information about the CERT program go to our CERT page*This training is only available to current university employees and students.  There is no charge for this trainingClasses begin at 09:00 and finish at 13:00for more information Emergency.management@concordia.caThis 4 hour course provides participants with basic fire prevention best practices for both the home and workplace and a hands on training of the different types of fire extinguisher and the oportunity to practice using a fire extinguisher on a on a real fire simulator.This course is free for university staff and currently registered students. The general public may register for the course at a cost of $45.00 per person.for more information Emergency.management@concordia.caOutside organizations or schools can make arrangements to host this training at Concordia or at their facilities. For more information please contact Darren Dumoulin by e-mail at darren.dumoulin@concordia.ca or at 514-848-2424, extension 5638.This is a one-day (9-hour) basic first aid and CPR, level C course qand is certified by the Quebec Heart and Stoke foundation.Participants will learn adult, child and infant CPR (cardio pulmonary resuscitation), how to use an AED (Automated External Defibrillator) as well as how to administer an EpiPen in cases of anaphylactic shock.  The course will also cover how to deal with a choking victim as well as common medical situations and trauma.Upon successful completion, candidates receive a certification card from the Heart and Stroke Foundation which is valid for 3 years.This course is open to the general public.  Courses begin at 09:00 and finish at 18:00The cost of the course is $90.00 per person. for more information Emergency.management@concordia.ca Courses to begin again in September 20166This is a 4 hour, level C, cardio pulminary resuscitation course certified by the Quebec Heart and Stoke Foundation.Participants will learn the different CPR techniques applied to an adult, child and infant as well as how to deal with a choking victim and how to use an AED (automated external defibrillator)Upon successful completion, candidates receive a certification card from the Heart and Stroke Foundation which is valid for 3 years.This course is open to the general public.  Courses begin at 09:00 and finish at 13:00The cost of the course is $60.00 per person. for more information Emergency.management@concordia.caWe offer a personalized training to university students or employees with mobility issues.  We will explain the procedure and show you what you need know and do in the event of an emergency and building evacuation.  The training can include a demonstration on the use of Evac-chairsTo register for this training, click on take this training link below.  Complete and submit the online registration form and we will contact you to coordinate the training with you.Note: Minimal attendance applies to all courses and information sessions. If the minimum attendance is not attained, the course will be canceled and participants will be offered an alternative date. © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityTrainingCERT Orientation Training (4 Hours)
                
            
                
					
                    Fire Prevention and Extinguisher Course
                
            
                
					
                    First Aid & CPR (9 hours)
                
            
                
					
                    CPR  (4 hour)
                
            
                
					
                    Emergencies and the mobility impairedSign up for emergency training programsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424