http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/campus-life/emergency/travel-safety.htmlYour school and academic-related travel should be productive, safe and enjoyable.  Travel can be a very exciting but because you may be out of your regular environment and far from your support structure, some preparedness planning is well worth it.Your school and academic-related travel should be productive, safe and enjoyable.  Travel can be a very exciting but because you may be out of your regular environment and far from your support structure, some preparedness planning is well worth it.Learn about the culture and rules that may be significantly different from what you are use to.  Ensure you have considered all the necessary medical requirements prior to leaving and know what to so if an emergency occurs.The university’s travel registry accounts for both student and employees who are outside of Quebec for more than 24 hours on university related activities. The purpose of the travel registry is to keep you safe.To add your name to the travel registry:The information you provide is confidential and will only be used to help you in the event of an emergency or a natural disaster in the region where you are travelling (Policy on Travel Outside of Quebec, VPS-53).You are required to register if you are a faculty, staff or student who is leaving the province of Quebec for more than 24 hours to:Learning about the culture, health risks, crime, visa and vaccination requirements of the countries you visit will help keep you safe and avoid problems.In the event your travels involve a destination with an associated travel warning issued by the Canadian government, you will be contacted by the Office of Emergency Management and provided with a travel risk assessment.While travelling, you should carry an emergency contact card with you at all times. Include the number of the nearest Canadian embassy as well as the phone number for Concordia University security 1-514-848-3717. This number can be called collect 24/7 if you need assistance.All staff, faculty and students who are Canadian citizens should register with Foreign Affairs and International Trade Canada. It is a free service offered by the Canadian government that keeps you connected to Canada in case of an emergency abroad or an emergency at home.Ensuring you have adequate travel insurance coverage is your responsibility and it is mandatory if your trip falls under the guidelines stipulated in the Policy on Travel Outside of Quebec, VPS-53.Most home insurance policies, health plans and certain credit cards claim to provide travel insurance coverage as an added feature. However the conditions, limitations and maximum claim limits may not provide adequate coverage in the event of hospitalization or medical evacuation. You should purchase a travel insurance product from a recognized and reputable insurance company. In most cases, the cost of travel insurance is an approved travel expense.The university corporate card does NOT provide adequate travel insurance coverage but may be used to purchase a travel insurance policy. See the Policy for Travel and Other Allowable Expenses, VPF-3.Have a safe and pleasant trip.
Your emergency management teamYou can download these documents or request the printed versions from the Office of Emergency Management.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityTravel safetyRelated linksRead more about travel safety
                
            
                
					
                    Travel registry
                
            
                
					
                    General travel safety
                
            
                
					
                    Travel insuranceConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424