http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/offices/facilities/water-use-reduction.htmlConcordia's department of Facilities Management is pleased to announce the adoption of its new Water Use and Reduction Program. Developed in cooperation with the Ministère des Affaires municipales, des Regions et de l'Occupation du territoire (MAMROT), the City of Montreal and other stakeholders.The goal of this program is threefold.How much water does Concordia use? What are we doing to reduce our consumption? What can students, staff and visitors do to reduce their personal water consumption? All of these questions are paramount in raising awareness of water consumption and in doing our part to reduce Concordia’s environmental footprint.During the first months of 2013, Facilities Management has been collecting an inventory of all the plumbing fixtures in each of our buildings. This inventory will serve as a benchmark to help us measure our success as we gear up to meet a 20% target for reduction in water consumption by December 31, 2016. Meeting this goal within such a short timeframe will be no small task. In addition to banning inefficient equipment, many of our installations will need to be renovated.As a supplement to our infrastructure work, we will also be providing information to our occupants on actions they may take to help reduce their personal water consumption. By adapting our behaviour and being conscious of our impact, we can all make a difference.Reducing our water consumption is something we can all take to heart. Whether at home, work, out shopping, or grabbing a bite to eat, there are a number of ways we can ensure that we do not waste this precious resource. The following links provide ideas and resources aimed at reducing our water consumption through small changes in our habits.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityWater use and reductionGoal of the program
                
            
                
					
                    What you can doAt HomeAt WorkMiscellaneousConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424