http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2015/09/03/ways-to-stay-safe-on-campus-security.htmlEn francais.
Every fall, scores of new students pour into the neighbourhoods around Concordia. The heavy traffic can cause a lot of confusion and create some hazardous situations.Here are some tips to help you stay safe on the roads and sidewalks around the Loyola and downtown campuses.While commuting — whether you’re travelling by foot, by bike or by car — keep your eyes on what’s ahead of you. Don’t get distracted by your smartphone.When you’re crossing the street, always make eye contact with drivers. And be prepared for the unexpected. Read more on the dangers of texting while walking and how fall rush-hour is the most hazardous.Be vigilant with your belongings, too: Don’t leave them unattended.The City of Montreal is currently replacing the water mains and conduits under Guy Street, which has required work around the clock over the last two weeks of August. Commuters are strongly encouraged to make use of the tunnels connecting Concordia’s downtown buildings to avoid the intersection. Bookmark this page and check it regularly for updates on the construction.Instead of dragging your heels at the next fire drill, be on the lookout for anyone who might need assistance. Look for exits nearby, don’t just follow the crowd. And when you exit your building, be sure to cross the street to distance yourself from any danger.Fire drills will be held in late September.There’s an app for this! Download the free Alertus app to be notified on your smartphone of any emergencies or issues on campus. Learn more about installing the app (you’ll need a domain and password) and all the other ways to receive campus alerts.Report any incidents or suspicious behaviour to Security at ext. 3717 or 514-848-3717 (Press 1 for an emergency, 2 for a non-emergency) and report any problems with facilities (cleaning, broken furniture, plumbing, etc.) to the Service Centre at 514-848-2424, ext. 2400. 
        Here’s what to do if you’re hurt on campus
    
        Be Aware. Move With Care.
    
        The 3 basics of  theft prevention
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia University5 ways to stay safe on campusNews
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topics1. Be vigilant2. Be careful around construction3.  Participate actively in fire drills (Fire safety preparedness)4. Sign up for emergency alerts5. Help us keep our campuses safeFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424