http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/campus-life/emergency/what-to-do.htmlEmergencies are most often unpredictable and happen with little or no warning. By being aware of your surroundings, identifying suspicious activity and considering what your options are, gives you a significant advantage that could save your life.Take a few minutes to review the different emergency procedures below and consider how these could apply to you on campus.How to call campus securitySecurity agents are trained to respond to a variety of emergencies and can provide assistance quickly, often responding within minutes of your call.If the incident requires Emergency Services, such as ambulance, police or fire department, Security will connect you directly with a 911 operator to ensure a coordinated and efficient response. Security will respond to the location of the emergency and have agents waiting for responding emergency services to escort them to the exact location of the emergency, saving valuable time.From an internal phone, dial 3717From an external or cell phones, dial 514-848-3717514-848-3717 is a free call from any public pay phone located on campus.Emergency phones are located in several locations on campus. Simply press the burron to be connected with Security.Fire phones are located in most high rise buildings, usually near emergency exits. In an emergency, break the glass and lift the reciver to be connected with Security.EvacuationA building evacuation can be initiated for several reasons; fire, gas leak, hazardous material release…   In most cases, the fire alarm is utilized to evacuate a building.  When the fire alarm is heard, it is a signal that an evacuation is necessary and you should: Shelter in PlaceA shelter in place emergency is a situation that requires building occupants to remain indoors due to a threat or dangerous situation outside to of a building(s). A shelter in place could be initiated due to a violent demonstration, severe weather, police operation or fire in a neighboring building. Normally, building occupants can circulate freely inside a building during a shelter in place emergency unless instructed otherwise.  A shelter in place alert could include specific instructions such as staying stayingaway from exterior windows.  A shelter in place emergency and specific instructions, will be communicated via the emergency notification system Lock down A lock down is initiated for emergencies that present a serious threat to the life and safety of people on campus. Lock downs are generally associated with active shooter incidents or for a suspected armed and dangerous individual on campus.At Concordia, as soon as a serious threat to the life and safety of people on campus is confirmed, a campus emergency alert message will be initiated using the emergency notification system and Security personnel will begin locking entrance doors to the different buildings, to safeguard people in buildings and limit movement between buildings.Because the objective is to alert everyone on campus, as quickly as possible, the alert  message is sent campus wide and will not contain any specific information;EMERGENCY ALERT:  Armed Intruder at SGW Campus – If on campus, SEEK A SECURE LOCATION immediately, If not on SGW campus, stay away and await further instructions.The purpose of the campus alert is to advise the campus community as quickly as possible that a dangerous situation  is unfolding. Because the emergency alert message does not need to be modified or include details, it can be sent in a few seconds.You must keep in mind that the emergency may be in your building, a neighbouring building or across campus.  Regardless, you should stop what they are doing, assess the situation and if necessary, take whatever action is required for your personal safety.  (see the active shooter tab)If you determine that nothing is happening around you after receiving the emergency alert, you are probably in a safe area.  In this case you should remain where you are until you have more information as to the nature and location of the emergency or if your situation changes.  Because these situations are often confusing and chaotic it could require several minutes before details are confirmed and messages are scripted and sent.  As soon as more information becomes available and is confirmed, subsequent emergency notification messages will be sent, providing more details such as to the exact nature and location of the emergency to help building occupants determine what course of action they should take.   An active shooter is an individual(s) who is actively and indiscriminately engaged in killing or attempting to kill people.  In most cases active shooters use a firearm(s) and display no pattern or method for selection of their victims and their intentions are to kill as many people as possible.This is different from a hostage taking.   In a hostage taking situation, the armed individual uses hostages as leverage in exchange for something. The vast majority of hostage taking incidents are resolved through negotiation and end without injury to hostages.  If you are in a hostage taking situation you should be calm, patient and compliant and wait for authorities to negotiate a peaceful end to the situation.Unlike a fire alarm when everyone is instructed to evacuate, an active shooter incidents presents 3 possible actions that you must consider, depending on your proximity to an exit and/or to the armed assailant. At Concordia, as soon as a serious threat to the life and safety of people on campus is confirmed, a campus emergency alert message will be initiated using the emergency notification system EMERGENCY ALERT:  Dangerous Situation at SGW Campus – If on campus, SEEK A SECURE LOCATION immediately, If not on SGW campus, stay away and await further instructions.Because the objective is to alert everyone on campus, as quickly as possible, the alert  message is sent campus wide and will not contain any specific information.  The purpose of the campus alert message is to interrupt people caught up in their daily activities, alerting them that they are potentially in danger and triggering their survival instincts.  After receiving the Campus alert, you must determine if you are in immediate danger and take the necessary action to protect yourself.Always keep in mind that the emergency may be occurring in your building, a neighbouring building or across campus. If you assess that nothing is happening near you and that you are safe; remain where you are until you have more information as to the specific nature and location of the emergency.  If you determine that the threat is close, you must determine which action is best for you;  These three actions are Run, Hide or Fight:Run: If you can get out of the building safely, avoiding a confrontation with an armed assailant, then run and get out of the building and away as fast and as far as you can.  Take as many people with you as is safe, and once outside seek shelter, do not stand in an open area such as a parking lot.Hide: If you can’t run; Go to the nearest safe location that can be locked, preferably without windows and off the main hallway where the armed assailant cannot see you. Lock and/or barricade the door with whatever heavy objects you can find, stay away from the door frame, spread out inside the room, stay low, and be quiet.  If you can call 911 from this position without making noise, do it.  The purpose of hiding is to keep safe and out of sight until the police can arrive.Fight: The last option, if you can’t run or hide or if the armed assailant breaches your safe room is to fight; Understand that your assailant’s intentions are lethal to you and if you come face to face with him, you have no choice but to defend yourself and Fight to save your life and the life of your friends and colleagues;Normal people are capable of extraordinary actions when faced with a life of death situation.  As a group and working together, you have numbers in your favor and can over power the aggressor. Almost any room will have something in it you can use for protection or as a weapon; fire extinguishers, chairs, desk objects, books…. The video below describes the Run, Hide, Fight process suring an active shooter event. If the injury is the result of a fall or significant trauma, do not move the victim unless absolutely necessary.Security agents are trained and equipped with life saving devices, such as defibrillators (AED's) and oxygen and are able to respond in only a few minutes.For the purpose of an emergency evacuation, any person who is unable to ascend or descend a flight of stairs without considerable effort or who may slow other occupants that are attempting to evacuate, is considered mobility impaired. In most cases, there is no immediate danger during a fire alarm and evacuation. To avoid unnecessary risk and possible injury, it is safer for a mobility impaired person to remain near an emergency exit instead of attempting to descend several flights of stairs.Our emergency responders and security personnel are trained to stay with mobility impaired persons, on the floor on which they are found, near an emergency stairwell. Only if necessary will emergency responders and/or security proceed to evacuate a mobility impaired person via the stairwell or, when possible, the elevators.Most emergency stairwells are pressurized and equipped with fire-resistant doors that keep smoke and fire out of the stairwell.Watch the Evac-Chair promotional video to see how the chair functions. You may also register for training concerning emergencies and the mobilitity impaired for on-site training on emergency procedures, the use of Evac-Chairs and using building firefighter phones.Southern Quebec experiences severe weather regularly and you should be prepared.We usually have advance warnings of impending storms during the winter. The major risk during a severe winter storm is from driving and extended power failures.Be prepared:Unlike winter, severe weather can occur unexpectedly during the summer.  The major risks during the summer months are from high winds, hail, lightening and extended power failures.Be prepared:If stranded at workAlthough unlikely, it is possible that you could become stranded at work due to power failures, transportation disruptions from significant snow, ice or water accumulations. Keep a small supply of nonperishable or ready-to-eat food in your office.  If forced to wait out a storm at work, advise Security 514-848-3717 or 3717.Power failures are usually short in duration, lasting on average 20 minutes. In most cases, building occupants can remain in the building until power is restored.Larger buildings are equipped with emergency generators that maintain a minimum of lighting and building functions. Smaller buildings are equipped with battery back-up lighting which illuminate exits and stairwells. Smaller buildings may need to be evacuated within 20 minutes depending on the availability of natural light.Security agents, equipped with flashlights, will arrive quickly to assist you.Hazardous materials include chemicals, bio-hazardous waste and radioactive material. Any incident or spill involving hazardous material must be reported.In the event of a spill, release or accidental exposure:Although you may work with a hazardous material regularly, when spilled and no longer within the controlled environment, such as its container or within a fume hood, the situation may be completely different.You should only attempt to clean a spill if you have the necessary personal protective equipment, knowledge of the product, the associated health risks and appropriate equipment to clean and contain the product. You should never clean a spill if you are alone. Accidents happen, it is part of the learning process but remember, even if you clean your own spill, the incident must be reported.  The focus of an incident investigation is to ensure that Concordia provides the safest working and learning environment possible.  Investigations are conducted to review procedures, not to establish blame.   Surprisingly, Montreal is in an active earthquake zone. Although most earthquakes are only detected by sensitive instruments, several hundred occur every year in Eastern Canada and Quebec. The possibility exists that a damaging earthquake could occur on the island of Montreal. Injuries can be prevented if people know what to do before, during and after an earthquake.During an earthquake, most injuries occur from falling debris and household or workplace articles. You can significantly reduce your risk of injury during an earthquake by securing furniture that could fall over and by not placing heavy or dangerous objects on shelves or on the wall that could injure you if it were to fall during an earthquake.If indoorsIf outdoorsIf you hear the Fire Alarm© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityWhat to do in an emergencyCall security before you call 911How to call campus securityWhen reporting an emergency:Identify the threatIn the event of a serious or life threatening injury or illnessDuring a fire alarmIf it becomes necessary to evacuateBe preparedWinter StormsSummer StormsIn the event of a power failureIf you are stranded in total darkness During an earthquakeAfter an earthquakeReporting an emergency
                
            Given that Concordia has two campuses and more than 70 different buildings and civic addresses, it is recommended that you call Concordia Security prior to calling 911.
                
					
                    Evacuation / Shelter in Place / Lock Down
                
            
                
					
                    Active Shooter / Armed Intruder
                
            
                
					
                    Medical emergencies
                
            
                
					
                    Fire evacuations and mobility impaired persons
                
            
                
					
                    Severe Weather
                
            
                
					
                    Power failures
                
            
                
					
                    Hazadous material incidents
                
            
                
					
                    EarthquakesPreventionConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424