http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/calendar/current/academic-regulations.htmlThe academic year begins with a Summer Session (May to August) followed by a Regular Session (September to April).Summer Session:
The Summer Session covers all courses offered from the beginning of May and the end of August.Regular Session:
The Regular Session is divided into a Fall Term (September to December) and a Winter Term (January to April), each of 15 weeks’ duration, including an examination period. The Academic Calendar at the beginning of this publication contains precise dates for the beginning and end of classes.Minimum Residence for Doctoral Degrees. The minimum residence requirement for a doctoral degree is 6 terms (two years) of full-time graduate study beyond the master’s degree, or the equivalent in part-time study, or 9 terms (3 years) of full-time graduate study beyond the bachelor’s degree for those students who are permitted to enroll for doctoral studies without completing a master’s degree. It should be understood that this is a minimum requirement, and that a longer period may be necessary in order to complete all the work that is required for the degree. In special circumstances, departments may permit or require candidates to spend a period of time in residence at another institution, subject to the approval from the School of Graduate Studies. When such arrangements are made, it is understood that the candidate will be engaged in full-time study, and that the institution will be able to provide appropriate supervision and research facilities. In all cases, candidates for a doctoral degree from Concordia University must complete at least two years of graduate study at this university, including the final year of the required residence period.Minimum Residence for Master’s Degrees. The minimum residence requirement for the master’s degree is 3 terms (one year) of full-time study, or the equivalent in part-time study. This requirement must be met regardless of the amount of graduate work previously completed in any other program or at any other university. Certain master’s programs require longer periods of minimum residence.Beyond Program Requirements. Courses which are completed, but not counted towards a degree or diploma, may be identified on the record as Beyond Program Requirements - Extra Credits.TopStudents who exceed the time limit as outlined below will be withdrawn from their program. Under exceptional circumstances a time limit may be extended upon the recommendation of the Graduate Program Committee and the approval of the Dean of Graduate Studies.Duration of Programs. It is expected that full-time students will complete the requirements for most doctoral degree programs within 12 terms (4 years). The expected time to completion for a master’s/magisteriate degree for full-time students is 6 terms (2 years) and the diploma and certificate is 3 terms (1 year). In the case of the MFA, the expected time to completion is 8 terms.Time Limits for Doctoral Degrees. All work for a doctoral degree must be completed within 18 terms (6 years) of full-time study or 24 terms (8 years) of part-time study from the time of original registration in the program.Time Limits for Master’s/Magisteriate Degrees. All work for a master’s/magisteriate degree for full-time students must be completed within 9 terms (3 years) from the time of initial registration in the program; for part-time students the time limit is 15 terms (5 years). In the case of MFA, the time limit for full-time students is 12 terms (4 years); for part-time students the time limit is 15 terms (5 years). In the case of the EMBA, the time limit for full-time students is 6 terms (2 years).Time Limits for Diploma Programs. All work for a diploma program must be completed within 6 terms (2 years) from the time of initial registration in the program for full-time students; for part-time students the time limit is 12 terms (4 years). In the case of the Diploma in Clinical Psychology, the time limit is 9 terms (3 years) for full-time students; for part-time students the time limit is 15 terms (5 years).  Time Limits for Graduate Certificate Programs. All work for a graduate certificate program must be completed within 6 terms (2 years) from the time of initial registration in the program for full-time students; for part-time students the time limit is 9 terms (3 years).Time Limits if transferring from a PhD to Master’s in a similar area of research would be granted a time limit based on the expected completion (4 years), less the number of years spent in the PhD program, or 2 years, whichever is greater; or the equivalent for part-time study.Time Limit if transferring from a Master’s to a Diploma in a similar area of study would be granted a time limit of 2 years, less the number of years in the Master’s, or 1 year, whichever is greater; or the equivalent for part-time study.Time Limit if transferring from a Diploma to a Master’s in a similar area of study would be granted a time limit of 3 years, less the number of years in the Diploma; or the equivalent for part-time study.The academic progress of graduate students is monitored at the end of every term. To be considered in good standing, students in master’s and doctoral programs must maintain an Assessment Grade Point Average (AGPA) of at least 3.00 based on a minimum of 12 credits.Students whose AGPA falls below 3.00 are considered to be on academic probation. Students whose AGPA falls below 3.00 for any two assessment periods are considered to be in failed standing. Individual programs may have more stringent AGPA regulations; students should check their program’s calendar entry or with the Graduate Program Director.Students in graduate diploma and graduate certificate programs must maintain a minimum GPA of 2.70 during their program of study in order to be considered in good academic standing. Students whose AGPA falls below 2.70 are considered to be on academic probation. Students whose AGPA falls below 2.70 for any two assessment periods are considered to be in failed standing. Individual programs may have more stringent AGPA regulations; students should check their program’s calendar entry or with the Graduate Program DirectorStudents in qualifying programs or concurrent qualifying programs in undergraduate courses will be assigned a grade in accordance with the undergraduate grading system for undergraduate courses. For all courses a B grade is required in order to ensure that the minimum standards of the graduate grading system are maintained. In addition, students must meet specific program requirements for good academic standing.TopGraduate students who receive more than one C grade during the course of their studies will be withdrawn from the program unless continuation in the program is requested by the student’s program or Faculty and approved by the Dean of Graduate Studies. Course-based programs in the John Molson School of Business do not have a C Rule.  Individual programs may have more stringent regulations; students should check their program’s entry or with the Graduate Program Director.Students who have been withdrawn may apply for re-admission (see Re-Admission of Withdrawn Students in Graduate Admission section). Students who receive another C after re-admission will be withdrawn from the program and will not be considered for re-admission. Students should refer to the section on Academic Standing in their program’s calendar entry. Graduate students who receive a failing grade in the course of their studies will be withdrawn from the program unless continuation in the program is requested by the student’s program or Faculty and approved by the Dean of Graduate Studies. If withdrawn from program, students may apply for re-admission (see Re-Admission of Withdrawn Students. Students who receive another failing grade after re-admission will be withdrawn from the program and will not be considered for re-admission.In order to graduate, students in doctoral and master’s programs must have a cumulative GPA of at least 3.00. Students in diploma and graduate certificate programs must have a cumulative GPA of at least 2.70 in order to graduate. Individual programs may have more stringent regulations; students should check their programs’ regulations or with the Graduate Program DirectorStudents who do not have a supervisor when required by their program will be withdrawn from that program. Students may request to be allowed to remain registered in the program after this point for a maximum of four months in order to secure a new supervisor. Degree, diploma, and certificate candidates who expect to complete their program requirements in a particular term must apply to graduate by filling out the online Graduation Application Form. The form should be completed by January 15 for spring graduation and July 15 for fall graduation.Note: In programs requiring a master’s or doctoral thesis, there are deadlines for thesis submission which must be met if a student is to graduate at a particular graduation. These deadlines are outlined in the Academic CalendarConcordia University has adopted a system of assigning credits to the components of its graduate programs. This system was recommended by the Conseil des Universités du Québec for implementation in all the universities of the Province of Québec. The fundamental concepts in this system are defined in the Rapport du Conseil des Universités sur les Diplômes Universitaires. The credit base takes into account the total activity of the student in terms of lectures, seminars, conferences, laboratories, studio or practice periods, practica, and research, including, where appropriate, the number of hours of personal work required, as estimated by the university. A credit is considered to represent a minimum of 45 hours devoted by the student to an educational activity as described above.While the language of instruction in Concordia University is normally English, students have the right to write their assignments and examinations in French. It must be understood, however, that in a case where a professor cannot read French, the assignments and examinations must be read by another professor, with possible disadvantages and delays for the student. Students are advised to enquire of the instructor at the beginning of the course whether assignments and examinations written in French will be read personally by the professor. Notwithstanding the above, language and literature departments may require assignments and examinations to be written in the language being studied.TopThe grades and other notations described and defined in this section are those used for the evaluation of graduate courses and certain other graduate degree and diploma components. Some programs have academic regulations supplementing these definitions and descriptions. Such additional regulations define what is required in terms of grades for a student to be considered in good standing in a program. Refer to the relevant program section of this calendar and, where the academic regulations for a program have not been stated, consult the Graduate Program Director. Grades used for graduate courses or courses taken as part of a graduate program are A+, A, A-, B+, B, B-, C, Pass, F, Fail, Fail/Absent (F/ABS), Audit , In Progress (IP) and In Progress Extension (IPE).The weight accorded to the various elements of the performance of each student is at the discretion of the instructor or instructors responsible for the course. At the beginning of a course the instructor will provide students with the evaluation scheme in writing. The scheme cannot be altered without appropriate notice.The In Progress (IP) notation is used when a student, who has completed a substantial portion of the course, cannot complete the course in time for reporting grades due to circumstances beyond their control. This notation may be assigned only to individual students, not to entire classes. The IP notation is only used in combination with a valid course grade (e.g. “B/IP”, “F/IP”). The grade is assigned on the basis that the missing work is graded as zero and included in calculating the overall grade. Students must complete courses with IP notations by the DNE deadline of the following term or the Fall DNE deadline for Summer term courses (see Academic Calendar for precise dates). If the course is not completed, the IP notation will be removed at the DISC deadline and an INC notation will be recorded along with the grade and the grade will become the permanent grade. If the course is completed after the DNE deadline the grade will not be changed (e.g. “B/INC”, “F/INC”). The Incomplete (INC) notation is used to indicate that the student did not complete the required work for the course.Under exceptional circumstances an additional period of In Progress Extension (IPE) may be granted. Requests for an IPE notation should be submitted as a student request, supported by relevant documentation including confirmation of the instructor’s support for a further extension prior to the DNE deadline.

In-Progress Leave (IPL) is an administrative extension to indicate the student is on a Leave of Absence and the IP or IPE grade reporting deadline is extended until the end of the leave.

In-Progress (IPM) is an administrative notation to indicate the student has been granted an exceptional extension until a specific date to complete the work.

Either graduate programs or the School of Graduate Studies may prevent/remove course registrations on the basis of outstanding IP/IPE notations on the student record.Grades with IP, IPE, IPL or IPM notations are not included in GPA calculations.Grades with an INC notation are included in the GPA calculations.Students will be required to complete the course(s) with IP/IPE notations by the DNE deadline following their return from Leave.In addition, the following are notations which are not grades:In cases where the original grade is not calculated correctly, the final grade can be altered.All final grades for all courses are required to be submitted no later than seven calendar days after the University’s last scheduled final examination.Graduate students are not permitted to write supplemental examinations.Comprehensive examinations are under the auspices of individual programs and students are advised to consult with their Graduate Program Director concerning program regulations. While the School of Graduate Studies’ general regulations permit a student to write comprehensive examinations a second time, individual programs may have a more stringent regulation in this regard (i.e., not permitting a second writing) and students should verify this with the program. Comprehensive examinations are graded as Pass or Fail. In cases where two attempts are permitted, an initial grade of fail is not reported on the student’s academic record or academic transcript.Note: Unless expressly permitted by the instructor, the possession of electronic communication devices is prohibited during examinations.Top© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
Academic RegulationsAcademic YearResidenceTime LimitsAcademic StandingC RuleF RuleGPA Graduation RequirementThesis SupervisionGraduation ApplicationCredit SystemLanguage of InstructionGrading SystemGrade Submission DeadlinesSupplemental ExaminationsComprehensive ExaminationsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424