http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/adult-education.htmlSince many adults will return to the classroom at various stages in their lives, educators can benefit from specialized training that helps adults refresh their skills or change careers. The Adult Education program is designed to give educators the tools and skills to help adults realize their goals. Learning is a life-long endeavour, and the program is suited to those interested in enhancing their skills as:Credits earned in the programs are officially recognized by the Quebec Ministry of Education for teacher classification.See full program structure and degree requirements.No specific courses are required beyond a DECMinimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.Applicants to the Programme in Adult Education will be interviewed prior to admission. Relevant work experience will be given consideration. Applicants whose first language is not English and who are not Canadian citizens or landed immigrants must achieve a satisfactory performance on the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) before being considered for admission. This requirement will be waived for foreign students completing their undergraduate degrees at a university where English is the language of instruction. Students with marginal English proficiency may be asked to complete language courses as program co requisites.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
 BA Minor Program structureStudents must take 24 credits, including two core courses and 18 credits chosen from Adult Education courses with the permission of the Program Director.Students registered in the Minor in Adult Education may, if they wish, register for the Internship: ADED 496 and ADED 497. Although this is not a requirement, it is highly recommended as an experiential "hands on" work/study experience.See detailed curriculum & degree requirements.Sample classes
Certificate Program structureStudents must take 30 credits, including four core courses (12 credits: ADED 201, ADED 202, AIDED 496 and ADED 497) and 15 credits chosen from Adult Education (ADED) offerings and three credits chosen as an elective from cognate courses with the permission of the Programme DirectorAll credits earned in the Certificate Programme may be transferred into an appropriate Bachelor's/Baccalaureate degree.
Read course descriptions in the Undergraduate Calendar.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityAdult Education (Minor, Cert)Related programKey resourcesJoin the ConversationProgram options & degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculumWhy study Adult Education?Certificate (Cert), Bachelor of Arts (BA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Cegep StudentsMinimum Cut-off AveragesAdditional requirements