http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/encs/about/dean/advisor-aerospace.htmlIn late 2009, Dr. Robert Fews was Aerospace Special Advisor to the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science. This new position was established in order to facilitate the creation and promotion of apprenticeship opportunities for ENCS students, as well as to help integrate students into the workforce at both the graduate and undergraduate levels. The Aerospace Special Advisor will also play an important role in promoting ENCS’s aerospace-related activities and programs internally and externally.Originally hailing from England, Dr. Fews completed a five-year apprenticeship with British Aerospace Ltd, where went on to work as a structures engineer on the Concorde SST project before pursuing a PhD in Aircraft Design from the Cranfield Institute of Technology. Dr. Fews then came to Canada in 1978, when he accepted a position as Senior Staff Specialist at Canadair Ltd in Montreal. In 1984, he joined Bell Helicopter Textron Canada, where he served as Manager of Technology until 2002, when he became Director of Research for the company, a position which he held until 2009.Said Dr. Fews of his appointment, “I feel honoured to be part of the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science because it has established itself as a major centre for aerospace research and teaching in Montreal.” Indeed, Concordia has been a leader in collaborations with industry, as evidenced by its establishment of the Concordia Institute for Aerospace Design and Innovation (CIADI), as well as its involvement in the Consortium for Research and Innovation in Aerospace in Quebec. With Dr. Robert Fews as a new member of the ENCS team, the Faculty is sure to remain an important leader in this dynamic field.The Aerospace Special Advisor works closely with the Concordia Institute for Aerospace Design and Innovation (CIADI). CIADI's objective is to promote awareness and provide leading edge know-how among engineering students in aerospace design and innovation. CIADI’s approach is multi-disciplinary in nature and its efforts are focused on ever-evolving aerospace technologies. CIADI, part of the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science provides excellent training opportunities for students seeking a career in the aerospace industry.© Concordia UniversityAbout the Faculty
Academics
Research
Facilities & services
 Student life
 News & events
 ContactConcordia UniversityAerospace Special AdvisorFaculty of Engineering & Computer Science
            
                Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science
            Dr. R. FewsAbout CIADIConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424