http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/encs/mechanical-industrial/programs/undergraduate/aerospace-engineering-beng.htmlDesign airplanes. Build helicopters. Test unmanned air vehicles.Aerospace engineers master the mechanisms behind flight and propulsion in the atmosphere and in space. Choose to specialize in Aerospace and Propulsion, Aerospace Structures and Materials, or Avionics and Aerospace Systems. Through labs, lectures and projects, you’ll also:Our state-of-the-art labs give you experience with the tools and equipment you may use in the field. Montreal represents one of the three largest aerospace clusters in the world. After completing their degree, students will be in a position to use their advanced aerospace engineering knowledge and their creative, inquisitive and analytical skills in industry, government and service sectors.A Bachelor of Engineering degree takes a minimum of four years (120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background. Options:In the first year of study, students must choose one of the following options:Read more about the Aerospace Engineering options.Applicants who do not meet the minimum requirements or with partial prerequisites are encouraged to apply and will be reviewed holistically. Missing prerequisites will be added to their program.Admission is based on applicants' overall CRC, including above-average grades in mathematics and physics, and completion of the following classes as part of their DEC.

Prerequisites for all BEng programs and the BCompSc Computer Systems Option:
 CHEM 101 or 202-NYA; MATH 103 or 201-NYA and 203 or 201-NYB and 105 or 201-NYC; PHYS 101 or 203 NYA and 201 or 203 NYB

Cegep applicants completing a three-year technical DEC in a related field are eligible for admission if they meet the overall CRC requirements. Missing prerequisites will be added to their program. Students may be eligible for exemptions/transfer credits based on course equivalencies.Prerequisites for all BEng programs and the BCompSc Computer Systems Option: Calculus I and II, Linear Algebra, Mechanics, Electricity and Magnetism, General Chemistry I

Transfer credits may be considered on a course‑by‑course basis.Students will be assessed according to their educational background. Some or all prerequisites will be added to the program at Concordia. IB Standard Level courses (SL) are not eligible for exemptions. Students from Bacc. Français schools with Série ES may be considered for admission to some programs.Prerequisites for all BEng programs and the BCompSc Computer Systems Option: Math and Physics (Chemistry if Physics not offered)Engineering students are able to add a minor in another discipline once they have completed at least 21 credits and if they maintain a GPA of 2.70. Refer to the Undergraduate Calendar for details.Minimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. As our programs are competitive, applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.PLEASE NOTE:
The admissions requirements are the same for all Aerospace Engineering programs. If you are interested in Aerospace Engineering, choose only ONE of the programs on your Concordia application.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
 CurriculumThe curriculum consists of the Engineering core, the Aerospace Engineering core and electives from one of three elective groups: See curriculum details in the Undergraduate CalendarSee Aerospace Engineering course sequencesThe Co-op program gives you the chance to complete paid work terms that last 12 to 16 weeks. As a Co-op student, you will work for engineering firms where you may:Read more about the Aerospace Engineering Co-op program.Learn more about Capstone projectsPrevious aerospace-trained engineers have been hired by:© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityAerospace Engineering (BEng)Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE)
            
                Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE)
            Key resourcesJoin the conversationProgram options & degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Co-op program
                
            
                
					
                    Sample projects
                
            
                
					
                    After your degreeWhy study Aerospace Engineering?Program detailsAll studentsCEGEP studentsUniversity transfer studentsCanadian High School, International Baccalaureate
and Bacc. Francais StudentsMinorsBachelor of Engineering (BEng)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Minimum cut-off averages