http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2015/05/12/alan-shepard-aero-montreals-newest-board-member.htmlConcordia’s President Alan Shepard has been named to the Board of Directors of Aéro Montréal, the think tank that brings together all the major decision makers in Quebec’s aerospace sector.Suzanne M. Benoît, president of Aéro Montréal, says the president will play a key role within the governing body. “Dr. Shepard will work in close collaboration with the province’s other universities to ensure the industry gets the highly skilled workers it needs to continue moving forward.”Created in 2000, the Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design and Innovation (CIADI) is Quebec’s first post-secondary institution developed specifically to answer the needs of the highly specialized industry. Today, the three other engineering faculties in Montreal, as well as the Université de Sherbrooke, house similar aerospace institutes. Together with CIADI, they form a network.“Through our research and expertise, Concordia and our university partners are vital contributors to Quebec’s thriving aerospace sector,” says Shepard. “Working within Aéro Montréal allows us to bring the expertise and innovative thinking of our researchers and students to further strengthen the industry.”Among the most concrete results of this type of collaboration between universities and the aerospace industry are the many internship programs that now exist, allowing students to discover the potential of the field.Established in 2006, Aéro Montréal's mission is to mobilize industry players around common goals and concerted actions to increase cohesion and optimize the competitiveness of Quebec’s aerospace cluster.It aims to foster the growth and expansion of the cluster to ensure that it continues to create wealth for Montreal, Quebec and Canada. Over the years, Aéro Montréal adopted a strategic action plan that includes the creation of six working groups. Each one is dedicated to a different area of intervention: supply chain development, branding and promotion, innovation, human resources, defense and national security, and commercialization and market development.
Learn more about Aéro Montreal.Learn more about the Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design and Innovation (CIADI). 
        $1.3 million grant bolsters aerospace research in Montreal
    
        Powered by team spirit
    
        Collaborations in aerospace to take flight through national body
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityAlan Shepard: Aéro Montréal’s newest board memberNews
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424