http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/events/artsci/sdbi/2015/03/25/angela-cameron-sperm-donation-in-ontario.htmlThis paper presents some of the results of an empirical study conducted by Angela Cameron and Vanessa Gruben. The purpose of the project is to learn about the use of donated sperm in the creation of families by speaking with people who have created their families in this way, and with people who work with these families.  Our objective is to hear what they think about the current legal approach to gamete donation in Canada and how they think it should be regulated. We intend to use what we’ve learned in these conversations to propose law reform in the use of anonymous sperm donation in Ontario.
 
Our discussions with participants have focused on three areas. First, we have asked participants to speak to us about their experience with sperm donation. Second, we have asked whether participants believe that anonymous sperm donation should continue in Ontario and why. Third, we have asked participants what information they believe should be collected from donors, whether information should be collected on an ongoing basis, when information should be disclosed to the donor-conceived offspring and whether a registry is the best mechanism to accommodate the needs of all parties involved in gamete donation.
Using the lenses of feminist bioethics and feminist law reform, this paper will present our findings and recommendations in two key areas: the particular legal and social concerns of women-led families, and information registries.Professor Cameron’s research is generally in the area of social justice, with a particular focus on the equality interests of women. Professor Cameron’s research areas include criminal law, restorative justice, property law, reproductive technologies law, family law, legal theory, sociological approaches to law, and human rights law.

She is the administrator of Bloggingforequality.ca© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
                        Sperm Donation in Ontario: An Empirical StudySimone de Beauvoir Institute
            
                Simone de Beauvoir InstituteConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424