http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/cinema/programs/film-studies/film-studies-ma/courses/archives.htmlMA Course Descriptions 2015-2016FMST 600 /3 Methods in Film Studies
 Instructors: Luca Caminati (Fall) / Joshua Neves (Winter)
 Description:
 This is a mandatory course in Film Studies MA Program. It is designed to help students develop research, writing and presentation skills appropriate to the discipline of film studies. In addition to technical and practical matters, the course helps students develop productive and original research questions. The first term, taught by Luca Caminati, will address issues of criticism, theory, film analysis and cultural approaches to cinema. The second term, taught by Joshua Neves, will focus on the relationship between film and other media, their technologies and circulation.  Final grades will be calculated on the basis of all assignments and presentations in both semesters. FMST 605 /2 John Greyson
 Instructor: Tom Waugh
 Description:
 A seminar on the oeuvre of Toronto film-, video- and media- maker John Greyson (b. 1960), based on the pedagogical format of weekly screenings anchored in critical and theoretical readings, plus active online and in-class discussions.Our 13-week trajectory follows a roughly chronological structure, and raises issues of media activism; interdisciplinary, transgeneric and transmedium film practice; sexuality and queer arts creation—all in historical cultural context. In keeping with the seminar rubric it also focuses on cinematic practice and history rooted in the English Canadian national and local (Toronto) arenas though with global political and cultural backdrops. The instructor’s 2013 anthology The Perils of Pedagogy: the Works of John Greyson (McGill-Queen’s University Press) is the basic text.In-class presentations explore Greyson’s films’ intertext/intersection with other artists and contexts. The projected outcome for each registrant will be a publishable paper building on his/her presentation or on a subject of her/his choice.FMST 630B /4 Narrative Theory
 Instructor: Martin Lefebvre
 Description:
 This seminar seeks to offer students a solid historical understanding of the main aspects of narrative theory with special emphasis on issues and problems raised by film narrative (as well as post-cinematic audio-visual media). We will examine the different traditions in narratology: formalist, structuralist, cognitivist, and post-structuralist.FMST 635 /4 Affect and the Anthropocene – modes of viewing, listening and perceiving the cinematic
 Instructor: Erin Manning
 Description:
 This course is not an overview of affect theory. Rather, it takes affect as a starting point to ask, following Spinoza, how affect opens up, challenges, or reorients ecologies of existence? And: how does such a reorientation influence the place the cinema plays in our lives.640/2 MA Gender Issues: Special Topic: Women and Silent Film History
 Tues 13:15-17:15
 Instructor: Dr. Liz Clarke
 This course will focus on women during cinema’s silent period. We will focus on women in film, women behind the camera, and women as audience members. This course seeks to enrich students’ understanding of women and film while also training students as feminist film historians. Topics of study will include cross-dressing in silent film, sexuality in the 1910s and 1920s, female comediennes, women and war propaganda, female directors, editors, and screenwriters, leisure and the movie-going audience.  Assignments will not only require students to engage with the historical materials but, also, with methodological questions in feminist film history.FMST 645 /2 Topics in Film Genres: The Horror Genre
 Instructor: Donato Totaro
 Description:
 This course moves forward on the premise that the classical form of the horror genre took root in the 1930s, then some time in the 1960s the ‘modern’ horror film was born, and things haven’t been quite the same since. These two presumptions, definitional in nature, represent two of the many horror film discourses the course will engage, through a combination of screenings, readings, discussion, debate, writing, and collaborative research. Rather than taking a strictly historical path, the course will examine the landscape of horror by way of the many discourses that have shaped the growth and study of the genre from 1930 to 2015. Peeping Tom, for example,  can be seen as a template for future feminist discourse on the gaze and identification, while this developing feminist discourse in turn influenced the direction of the killer (the ‘horror of personality’) in later slasher and neo-stalker films.  These and other varied ‘discourses’ (technology, fandom, violence, the internet, television) will inform the weekly course proceedings, including my own lectures/presentations and the work done in class individually and/or collectively. The range of course assignments include critical work on required readings, an in-class presentation, a study on the aesthetics of horror, and an online/Web-based/Internet project.FMST 650D /4 Topics in Experimental Film & Video: Archival Film Practices
 Instructor: Catherine Russell
 Description:
 Filmmakers have been raiding the archive for decades, making new work out of old. The aesthetics of this practice are extremely varied, and have undergone several phases of revision with new technologies and new artistic practices, not to mention different archival sources. In this class we will survey the history of this practice as it has evolved since the 1950s, and into the digital era. Readings from selected cultural theorists and film critics will situate this work within a larger context of archival theory and art practice. Screenings will include examples of experimental, documentary, and other forms of archival film practices including web-docs, fiction, and essay films. Together, we will explore critical questions of history and memory, collecting, compilation, techniques of montage and optical printing, as well as political and historical issues arising from an eclectic group of films. Students will be expected to do oral presentations and submit a final term paper.FMST 665/1 Topics in Film Studies: Gender, Media, Technology
 Instructor: Megan Fernandes
 Description:
 This course asks students to reexamine the critical practices and discourses of media and technology through the theoretical lens of gender studies. As new technologies emerge that visualize and narrate our haptic intimacy with other vital forms, the socio-political construction of gender stability is continually undermined, thwarted, and re-imagined. In this class, students will be asked to consider how conversations about gender contribute to evolving discourses around computing, animation, hacker culture, commercial surrogacy, sex organ reassignment, tissue cultures, and toxicity/contagion. Students will be expected to participate in discussion of course material, give formal presentations on assigned readings and screenings, write a research paper, and complete a creative assignment.Megan Fernandes is an interdisciplinary affiliate faculty member. She holds a PhD in Literature from University of California at Santa Barbara and she has published widely as a scholar and a poet. She has previously taught at M.I.T., University of Boston, Lesley University, and Brown University.FMST 665 /4 Topics in Film Studies
 Curatorial Practices from Alternative Exhibition to the Festival Circuit
 Instructor: Dr. Ezra Winton
 Description:
 This workshop/seminar will combine theory and practice in a weekly critical and creative discussion around programming and curation, as well as provide critical insight into the film festival circuit: including how it works, theoretical concerns, established conventions and new developments. Mainstream and commercial programming strategies will be compared and contrasted with alternative and grassroots curatorial approaches, with a focus on representational aspects of race, class, gender and sexuality. An exemplary film (including fiction and non-fiction) that has been programmed or rejected by mainstream festivals will be screened in class each week. Course readings will be compiled from both curatorial and festival scholarship, including from newer works like Curating Africa in the Age of Film Festivals (Lindiwe Dovey) and Coming Soon to a Festival Near You: Programming Festivals (Jeffery Ruoff [ed.]) and seminal texts by Liz Czach, Bill Nichols and The Moving Image’s 2004 “Film Programming” Dossier. Course assignments will include in-class presentations, curatorial projects and two short writing assignments.FMST 804 /2 New Media Theory: Genealogies of the Digital
 Instructor: Joshua Neves
 Description:
 This course explores key genealogies informing “new” and “digital” media studies, including the informal, residual, and “pirate modernities” that exceed dominant North-Atlantic categorizations. It introduces canonical scholarship as well as recent influential work from a range of disciplines. We will examine key historical and conceptual debates ranging from cyberspace and hypertext to networks, mobility, and data, paying close attention to how such issues have shaped understandings of cinema and audiovisual culture (such as anxieties over the image, the “disappearance” of race, video cultures, etc.). In addition to key texts in new media theory, the course will consider how parallel discourses of economic, cultural, and political transformation—such as globalization, information society, neoliberalism, etc.—animate new forms of memory, intimacy, control, exposure, affect, and empire across comparative and transnational contexts.FMST 806/2, Pro-Seminar
 Instructor: Martin Lefebvre
 Description:
 The first part of the Pro-Seminar offers a forum for discussing problems of disciplinarity with regards to the study of film and cognate areas. The central objective is to sensitize Ph.D. students to problems facing film studies disciplinarity as part of their training. The course will be divided into two (unequal) sections: Part I: Film Studies Looks at Itself: Some Historical Developments; and Part II: The Idea of Disciplinarity: Institutional, Cultural, Epistemological Issues.    FMST 807 /4 Film Education: Historical ?
 Instructor: Haidee Wasson
 Description:
 This class will familiarize students with debates about knowledge-creation using a case-study method. We will focus on how archives, theory, evidence, periodization, method and the process of writing dynamically undergird scholarship. Each week will focus on research questions concerning how to theorize and research topics/phenomena that are both familiar and new or “expanded” about cinema studies. This may include examining specific films that lie outside of the established film canon (amateur, institutional, experimental), expanded technologies (portable projectors, television, youtube) and spaces (homes, fairs, galleries, factories). In short, we will seek to answer the question: how do scholars make knowledge? “Hands-on” exercises will accompany critical and theoretical debates. Attention will be paid to recent challenges to film historiography including the expanded geographies of North American Cinema Studies as well as the diversified institutions, viewing platforms, technologies and types of objects now being considered integral to film research. FMST 880 /4 Textual Troubleshooting: Reading
 Instructor: K. Dickinson
 Description:
 Textual Troubleshooting allows doctoral candidates to nominate Film Studies and related literature with which they are having difficulty. This material then becomes the reading list for the term, each week dedicated to collectively working through scholarship that is central to one or more students' projects. Class members will be asked to frame their chosen texts both orally and via moodle and then, following the session, everyone will feed back responses to these selections with the aim of helping the proposer get a firmer grip on their field of study.MA Course Descriptions 2014-2015FMST 600/3 A (6 credits, fall and winter)
 Methods in Film Studies
 Instructors: Luca Caminati / Marc Steinberg
 Monday: 13:15 -17:15, FB-250This is a mandatory course in the MA in Film Studies Program. It is designed to help students develop research, writing and presentation skills appropriate to the discipline of film studies. In addition to technical and practical matters, the course helps students develop productive and original research questions by examining those that guide quality research in the field. The screenings and readings provide the ground for an analysis of the tools and methods of film studies. Course materials examine the ways that film history, criticism and textual analysis have been and can be written, encompassing a range of ways of seeing, interpreting and understanding cinema.Written and oral assignments are designed to develop research and communication skills appropriate to the field. The course also works to facilitate an esprit de corps within the M.A. class. The first term, taught by Luca Caminati, will cover issues of aesthetics and film analysis, including questions of authorship, genre and national culture. The second term, taught by Marc Steinberg, will address issues of film reception, exhibition, institutions and technologies. Final grades will be calculated on the basis of all assignments and presentations in both semesters.FMST 610I/2 A (3 credits, fall) / FMST 810I/2 A (3 credits, fall)
 Topics in Cinema Quebecois
 Instructor: Thomas Waugh
 Wednesday: 13:15 -17:15
 Quebec Cinema: the Sexual RevolutionA seminar on the historiography, theory and criticism of a specific period in Quebec cinema, 1963 to 1980, which coincided and engaged with the international historical phenomenon known as the Sexual Revolution. Although “maple syrup softcore” is a cliché of Quebec film history, scholarship on Quebec cinema has seldom explored in any depth the intersection of its modernization during the “Quiet Revolution” era and its encounter with the rapid liberalization of sexual mores and values. The seminar is based on the traditional Concordia pedagogical format of weekly screenings anchored in critical and theoretical readings, plus active online and in-class discussions. Our emphasis is on fiction feature films in French, by both art cinema “auteurs” and industry directors, and some documentaries and films in English are represented.The films of this period are notoriously inaccessible to students, teachers and researchers of Quebec film—even on video and especially with English subtitles. Archival 35mm prints with English subtitles are accessed at special screenings at the Cinémathèque québécoise. Because our topic is the representation of sexuality within Quebec’s national cinema within a turbulent and iconoclastic period, we will encounter imagery and language that are frank, sometimes graphic and perhaps even offensive to some. The projected outcome of the seminar for each registrant will be a publishable research paper on a subject of her/his choice pertaining to the seminar corpus and approved by the instructor.FMST 615C/4 AA (3 credits, winter) / FMST 815C/4 AA (3 credits, winter)
 Topics in European Cinemas 
 Special Subject: European Cinemas since the 1980s 
 Instructor: Rosanna Maule
 Monday: 18:00 -22:00This course surveys practices and trends in European cinemas since the 1980s, a period characterized by the crisis of national film industries within Europe and the emergence of alternative modes of production and distribution, as well as aesthetic trends. Topics include: trans-national and macro-regional production; the politics of cultural subsidy; transnational film movements and phenomena (Dogma 95); film genres (the heritage film; the neo-polar film); diasporic and immigrant filmmakers; European cinema and neo- or post-colonial identity.FMST 630E/2 A (3 credits, fall)/FMST 830E/2 A (3 credits, fall)
 Topics in Film Theory 
 Special Subject: Classical Film Theory 
 Instructor: Martin Lefebvre
 Tuesday: 13:15 -17:15, SGW, FB-250This seminar will focus on some of the major figures of what is now referred to as "Classical Film Theory". The seminar is addressed first and foremost to students interested in the history of film theory and in the development of ideas about cinema from the silent period to the 1960s.Classical Film Theory concerns a period in the study of the cinema that pre-dates the full-blown emergence of a discipline of film studies, one that, for the most part, precedes the full-blown development of a film studies curriculum in universities, the emergence of specialized academic journals, and the rise of professional film studies associations. Thus film theory was produced by a group of individual thinkers who were initially trained in either philosophy, psychology, art history, sociology, or other disciplines within the Humanities and working in isolation, but whose vision nonetheless introduced some of the most important and lasting debates about the nature of film and its relation to reality and the other arts.The course will center for the most part on the writings of 5 important figures of Classical Film Theory: Hugo Münsterberg, Sergei M. Eisenstein, Rudolf Arnheim, André Bazin and Siegfried Kracauer. We will investigate the sources of their ideas (philosophy, psychology...), their place in the history of film theory as well as their reception, all the while situating the different theories in their intellectual context. And since film theory does not develop out of "thin air", but in relation to films, films and film excerpts will be screened so as to further contextualize and/or exemplify the work of each of the theorists considered.FMST 635I/2 A (3 credits, fall) / FMST 835I/2 A (3 credits, fall)
 Topics Aesthetic/Cultural Theory 
 Special Subject: Cinema and the City
 Instructor: Catherine Russell
 Thursday: 13:15 -17:15The interpenetration of cities and cinemas takes place on many levels, and has shifted considerably over the 120 years of film and media history, from nickelodeons to digital displays. The study of cities and cinema is a means of better understanding the relations between the social world and cultural imagination, memory and the built environment. Themes of utopia and dystopia are pervasive, as well as themes of political activism and alienation; the analysis of visual style likewise extends to architecture and urban planning.This course will look at a wide range of filmmaking, including fiction and documentary, to better understand the close affinities between urban space and film practice, spectatorship, and global film history. Screenings will include early cinema, city “symphonies,” film noir, European art cinema, essay films, Asian cinema, science fiction, and web-based media art. Readings will include key works of modernity theory by Walter Benjamin and Siegfried Kracauer; cultural theorists such as Lefebvre and deCerteau, film theorists Giuliana Bruno and Edward Dimindberg, and a selection of contemporary urban theory. The course will examine the critical tools that emerge from the “cities and cinema” approach to film and media; it will also look at the role of cinema in producing cities as cultural discourses with significant implications for the public sphere. Students will be asked to do projects on specific cities and their cinematic personalities.FMST 635J/2 AA (3 credits, fall) / FMST 835J/2 AA (3 credits, fall) 
 Topics Aesthetic/Cult. Theory 
 Special Subject: Sounds of Struggle
 Instructor: Kay Dickinson
 Wednesday: 18:00 -22:00, FB-250What are sound and cinema’s positions within how “the global” is understood? This course’s objective is to fathom how sound and cinema spring from, inhabit, represent, catalyze and respond to the movements of global capital and the political struggle it ignites. Topics will include: the global market; deregulation and privatization; sonic torture and warfare; employment precarity; environmental protest; voicing dissent and alternatives; appropriation and the dialectic; student uprisings; and the notion of the commons.Methodologically, the course is driven by the belief that one of the most exciting aspects of studying sound’s associations with cinema is the potential this interaction creates for drawing different disciplinary traditions into alignment. By bringing disparate, sometimes divergent theoretical writings into dialogue, both sound studies and film studies can thereby benefit from an invigoration of their canons, epistemological conventions and even modes of perception. Taking this principle one step further, most weeks, “The Sounds of Struggle” introduces one key reading that lies outside the typical boundaries of both sound and film studies. In this way, the course aims to encourage MA students to fulfil one of the main criteria of graduate research: to look beyond their subject area for scholarship that will expand its current scope.FMST 650E/4 (3 credits, winter) / FMST 850M /4 A (3 credits, winter)
 Topics in Experimental Film and Video
 Instructor: Anthony Klinik
 Wednesday: 13:15-17:15, FB-250Since the 1920s, when Dziga Vertov began to theorize the political aesthetics of actualities, newsreels, and other non-fiction films, before pushing his practical experiments with “non-fiction film things” to even greater limits, experimental filmmaking and non-fiction filmmaking have been closely tied. Indeed, in many ways the example of Vertov was pivotal. Afterwards, even former specialists in abstract filmmaking like Walter Ruttmann and Hans Richter began to pursue the representation of objective reality, albeit according to modernist aesthetics and “within the matrix of geometric laws,” and the experimental documentary became a fixture of film history.This course provides a survey of the experimental documentary and the discussions and debates that have surrounded it, from the pioneering work of the modernist filmmakers of the 1920s and the 1930s to the idocs and “post-digital” experiments of the present. Topics covered will also include the Left Bank Group (Marker, Varda, etc.), the New American Cinema/Underground Cinema of the 1950s and 1960s (Mekas, Brakhage, etc.), Canadian experimental filmmaking of the 1960s and 1970s (Snow, Wieland, etc.), Godfrey Reggio and the Qatsi Trilogy, and the London Filmmakers’ Co-op and its legacy (Smith, Keiller, etc.). While the emphasis will be on experiments in celluloid, formats covered will also include video, digital filmmaking, and “post-digital” filmmaking.FMST 665M/4 (3 credits, winter) / FMST 865M /4 A (3 credits, winter)
 Topics in Film Studies
 Special Subject: Media and Cultural Theory in the Global Asias
 Instructor: Joshua Neves
 Tuesday: 13:15 -17:15, FB-250This course considers multiple genealogies of postcolonial and global cultural theory, with a particular focus on Asian media cultures. We will engage key texts in colonial/postcolonial theory, inter and trans-Asian cultural studies, theories of media and globality, as well as issues of race, sexuality, visuality, and political society. Key examples will include film/video movements across the region – from video formats, media events and Internet cultures, to documentary, film festivals, and myriad street-level practices. In short, the course explores how the afterlives of colonialism continue to affect so-called “rising Asia.” We will also examine shifting regional and “post-Western” imagined futures that are not singularly rooted in Euro-American frameworks and cultural politics.FMST 665N/4 AA (3 credits, winter) / FMST 865N/4 AA (3 credits, winter)
 Topics in Film Studies
 Special Subject: Film Criticism
 Instructor: TBC
 Thursday: 18:00 -22:00, FB-250Seminar: “The Art and Practice of Film Criticism”
This course comes at a crossroads moment in film criticism, with the growth of the internet in the process of revolutionizing how film criticism is written and performed (blogs, online film journals, online academic research engines, video essays, interactive writing, video streaming, etc.). This impact is especially felt because film criticism, more than other forms of writing, has always been closely tied to the medium in which it has appeared (newspapers, fanzines, magazines, cultural journals, radio, museum and art galleries, Laserdisc/DVD/Blu ray liner notes, online, etc.).The goal of this seminar course is three-fold: 1) a study of film criticism in its historical development (looking at some leading figures and key critical debates); 2) a theoretical analysis of its style and form (an attempt to distinguish film criticism from other forms of film writing, such as film reviewing, film theory, and film history) and; 3) the literary qualities of film criticism (yes, the actual writing itself!).Assignments will include brief written reports, an in-class presentation and an online project. Writers whose works will be read and discussed can include Pauline Kael, Andrew Sarris, Robert Warshow, James Agee, Otis Young, Stanley Kauffmann, Manny Farber, Victor Perkins, Molly Haskell, Camille Paglia, Susan Sontag, Otis Ferguson, Vernon Young, Robin Wood, Jonathan Rosenbaum, Yvette Biro, Jim Hoberman, and Manohla Dargis. The textbook for the course is The Language and Style of Film Criticism ed. Andrew Klevan, Alex Clayton, 2011. Other reading excerpts will be from Artists in the Audience: Cults, Camp and American Film Criticism by Greg Taylor, 1999, Nine American Film Critics by Edward Murray, 1978, The Complete History of American Film Criticism by Jerry Roberts, 2010, and the special issue of the online journal Amodern #1, “The Future of the Scholarly Journal”.MA Course Descriptions 2013-2014FMST 600/3 A (6 credits, fall and winter) 
 Methods in Film Studies
 Instructors: Prof. Masha Salazkina / Prof. Marc Steinberg
 Monday: 13:15 -17:15, FB-250This is a mandatory course in the MA in Film Studies Program. It is designed to help students develop research, writing and presentation skills appropriate to the discipline of film studies. In addition to technical and practical matters, the course helps students develop productive and original research questions by examining those that guide quality research in the field. The screenings and readings provide the ground for an analysis of the tools and methods of film studies. Course materials examine the ways that film history, criticism and textual analysis have been and can be written, encompassing a range of ways of seeing, interpreting and understanding cinema. Written and oral assignments are designed to develop research and communication skills appropriate to the field. The course also works to facilitate an esprit de corps within the M.A. class. The first term, taught by Masha Salazkina, will cover issues of aesthetics and film analysis, including questions of authorship, genre and national culture. The second term, taught by Marc Steinberg, will address issues of film reception, exhibition, institutions and technologies. Final grades will be calculated on the basis of all assignments and presentations in both semesters.FMST605H (3 credits, winter)/FMST 805H (3 credits, winter)
 Topics in English Canadian Film: The Works of John Greyson.
 Instructor: Prof. Thomas Waugh
 Wednesday: 13:15-17:15, FB250A seminar on the career of controversial Toronto film and video-maker/interdisciplinary artist/enfant terrible John Greyson (born 1960). Building on the screening of a selection of Greyson’s works, the seminar approaches a corpus ranging from prizewinning “fiction” features (Lilies, Fig Trees) to online provocations like BDS Bieber (http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5RasbjkjyNI), from multiple complementary vantage points and conceptual handles: national identity, activist, queer, musical, postmodern, essay, eroticism, pastiche, collaboration. The principal text is the instructor’s new anthology: The Perils of Pedagogy: The Works of John Greyson (co-edited with Brenda Longfellow and Scott MacKenzie, 2013). Seminar requirements are comprised of the processing of weekly assigned readings, a short seminar presentation on an aspect of a screened film, and a longer research paper on a related topic of the student’s choice.FMST 620E/2 (3 credits, Fall)/ FMST 820E (3 credits, Fall) 
 Topics in Non-Euro Cinema: Arab Revolutions. 
 Instructor: Kay Dickinson
 Tuesday: 18:00-22:00, FB250Our online repositories are awash with filmed material detailing, debating and promoting the compulsions and tactics of the current insurrections in the Arab world. Yet this body of work stands as simply the latest in a long line of alliances within the region between the capacities of film production and broader revolutionary praxis. For instance, Layla – purportedly Egypt’s first ever feature film – erupted out of and fortified the feminist anti-colonial campaigns of the 1920s. Since then, a significant majority of Arab moviemaking has engrossed itself in similar struggles against injustice. This course seeks to acknowledge and analyze cultural-activist engagements with a history of revolt in countries like Egypt, Palestine, Algeria and Syria, alongside related exilic, diasporic and internationalist endeavors. More particularly, this class will ask: how have various revolutions been conceptualized and enacted, and what role has, and can, cinema play within them? The corpus of films onto which this course opens comprises everything from guerrilla ventures to state-sponsored industrial output. In terms of reading matter, the meager Film Studies writing on these topics will be supplemented with political treatises, historical accounts, poetry, and anti-colonial theory.FMST 625C/2 (3 credits, Fall)/ FMST 825C/2 (3 credits, Fall)
 Topics in Film History: American Cinema of the 1950s.
 Instructor: Prof Catherine Russell
 Wednesday: 13:15-15:15, VA 114
Hollywood in the 1950s was an industry in decline, even while it produced some of the strongest films of its history. With the rise of independent productions, the competition of TV, and major shifts in the social fabric, American cinema was dramatically changed during this decade. In this course we will examine the social and cultural climate of the HUAC trials and the Cold War, the civil rights movement, suburbanism and popular Freudianism. We will focus on three key genres of the decade: the family melodrama, the Western, and film noir in order to examine how the changing social formation was negotiated ideologically through narrative cinema. We will look at films by key auteurs such as Anthony Mann, Alfred Hitchcock, Douglas Sirk, Nicholas Ray and Vincent Minnelli. This decade of American cinema has become a central focus of nostalgic discourses on American culture. One of the questions that will be addressed in the course concerns the relationship of film style (including performance, mise en scene and film aesthetics) to the social anxieties that are so dramatically represented during this period. Students will be required to do a class presentation and complete one term paper on topics of their choice.FMST 625H/4 (3 credits, Winter)/ FMST 825H/4 (3 credits, Winter)
 Topics in Film Theory: The Structuralist Moment in Film Theory.
 Instructor: Prof. Martin Lefebvre
 Wednesday: 18:00-22:00, FB-250This course looks at a key moment in the history of film theory and criticism in the light of the development of structuralist thought in the humanities and social sciences starting in France the late 1950s. Indeed, the rise of structuralist film studies coïncides with the rise of film studies in academia and the development in our discipline of so-called ‘methodological theories’. We will examine the genealogy of structuralism and its impact on our field and on the study of film from the early 1960s to the late 1970’s.FMST 630G/2 (3 credits, Fall)/830G/2 (3 credits, Fall)
 Topics in Film Theory: Media Theory.
 Instructor: Prof. Marc Steinberg
 Thursday: 13:15-17:15, FB250A proliferation of theoretical approaches to contemporary media has accompanied the recent proliferation of digital media forms. This course introduces students to recent developments in theories of film, video, television and new media, offering a succession of texts that seek, each in their own way, to engage the central questions of this course: What is a medium in this age of digital mediation? And by what theoretical avenues may we approach the issues of medium specificity, the multiplicity of media formations, and the emergent, culturally specific uses of media forms?FMST 635G/2 (3 credits, Fall)/ FMST 835G/2 (3 credits, Fall)
 Topics in Aesthetic and Cultural Theory: Postcolonial Theory and Cinema.
 Instructor: Anthony Kinik
 Tuesday: 13:15-17:15, FB407This course will introduce students to many key concepts in the field of postcolonial theory in relation to cinema and other media practices. It will do so through a close analysis of this theory as it applied to Montreal in the 1960s and early 1970s, and how the documentary, narrative, and industrial cinema that emerged from Montreal during this period captured and reflected upon these discourses. Our point of departure will be Sean Mills’ The Empire Within: Postcolonial Thought and Political Activism in Sixties Montreal (2010), and we will use this text both as an introduction to key works on the topic (such as Edward Saïd’sCulture and Imperialism and Albert Memmi’s The Colonizer and the Colonized), as well as a guide to the struggles, debates, and texts that defined the political scene (and, by extension, the politicized filmmaking scene) in Montreal at the time. The result will be a study of postcolonial thought in theory and praxis, as well as a probing investigation of Montreal as a cinematic city.FMST 640C/4 (3 credits, Winter) FMST 840C/4 (3 credits, Winter)
 Gender Issues in Film: Women and Authorship.
 Instructor: Prof. Rosanna Maule
 Tuesday: 18:00-22:00, FB 250This seminar examines women’s relation to the concept of authorship in film as a type of textual enunciation and professional agency. The focus is on theories and practices that address authorship as a strategy of meaning formation and cultural orientation set against dominant, normative or naturalized notions of subjectivity, meaning, and expression in film. From this perspective, the course will consider women’s association with authorship not as a source of intentional or transcendental signification, but instead as an interventional or resistant type of cultural production and critical discourse, conceived both outside of and within feminist frameworks of discourse. We will consider authorship as a performative tactic or a “technique of the self” (using Janet Staiger’s definition) within a variety of sociocultural context of film production and reception. The film author has traditionally been identified with the film director. While we will adopt this arbitrary equivalence, we will acknowledge its conceptual limitations and will also discuss authorship in relation to other forms of agency, as well as to collaborative or anonymous creativity in remixing and cinephiliac practices.FMST 650D/4 (3 credits, Winter)/ FMST 850D/4 (3 credits, Winter)/ ASEM 654E/4 (3 credits, Winter)
 Topics in Experimental Film & Video: Archival Film Practices.
 Instructor: Prof. Catherine Russell
 Thursday: 13:15-17:15, FB 250This course is on archival film practices, including found footage filmmaking, essay films, compilation films and new media. It includes an historical overview of the use of archival footage in experimental and documentary film. Readings will include key texts in the theory and criticism of found footage filmmaking, essay films, archive theory and documentary theory. Screenings will include classic works by Ernie Gehr and David Rimmer, as well as works by Godard and Thomas Andersen. The class will work through a series of theoretical problematics of this mode of film practice, including memory, history, technology, appropriation, subjectivity and the data base. Students will be asked to do presentations and to write term papers on topics of their choosing.FMST665L/4 (Winter)/FMST865L/a (Winter)
 Topics in Film Studies: Theories of Perception, 1910-2010. 
 Instructor: Dr. Erin Manning
 Tuesdays, 13:15-17:15, FB407This course will engage closely with work on perception that emerges alongside the development of moving images. Our goal will be to explore how perception is defined over the last 100 years, how it is taken up philosophically, and what effects philosophies of perception have had (and continue to have) on our perception of the cinema. The course will be structured around close readings, which will begin with Vertov and Bergson, continuing with Boccioni, James, Benjamin, Husserl, Whitehead, Merleau- Ponty, Deleuze, Guattari and Massumi. Alongside the readings, we will look at a series of films, video, animation, and video- based art installations. These works will be selected by the students and presented on a weekly basis through short presentations that highlight how the films/artworks engage/ open up/question the reading at hand. The goal will not be to explicate cinema through philosophical readings. Rather, philosophy will be considered as a mode of thought that opens the way for a conceptual exploration of the limits of perception and its effects on a changing medium. Final papers will be encouraged to work closely from the film/artwork to understand how it opens itself to questions of perception, using philosophy to develop a vocabulary to articulate these effects.© Concordia UniversityMel Hoppenheim School of CinemaConcordia UniversityPast coursesMel Hoppenheim School of Cinema
            
                Mel Hoppenheim School of Cinema
            Join the conversationMA Course Descriptions 2015-2016
                
            
                
					
                    MA Course Descriptions 2014-2015
                
            
                
					
                    MA Course Descriptions 2013-2014Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/art-history/programs/graduate/art-history-ma/seminars/archives.html© Concordia UniversityAbout
Programs
Research & creation
Student life
News & eventsConcordia UniversityMA Seminars – ArchivesDepartment of Art History
            
                Department of Art History2014-2015
                
            
                
					
                    2013-2014
                
            
                
					
                    2012-2013
                
            
                
					
                    2011-2012
                
            
                
					
                    2010-2011Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Fall SemesterFall-Winter SemesterWinter SemesterFall SemesterFall-Winter SemesterWinter SemesterSpring-Summer SemesterFall SemesterFall-Winter SemesterWinter SemesterSpring-Summer SemesterFall SemesterWinter SemesterFall SemesterFall-Winter SemesterWinter Semesterhttp://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/art-history/programs/graduate/art-history-phd/seminars/archives.htmlARTH 803 - Shame On Me!ARTH 809 - Art History & MethodologiesARTH 810 - Art History & Methodologies© Concordia UniversityAbout
Programs
Research & creation
Student life
News & eventsConcordia UniversityPhD seminars – ArchivesDepartment of Art History
            
                Department of Art History2015-2016
                
            
                
					
                    2014-2015
                
            
                
					
                    2013-2014
                
            
                
					
                    2012-2013
                
            
                
					
                    2011-2012
                
            
                
					
                    2010-2011Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Fall SemesterWinter SemesterFall SemesterWinter SemesterFall SemesterFall-Winter SemesterWinter SemesterFall SemesterWinter SemesterFall SemesterFall-Winter SemesterWinter SemesterFall SemesterFall-Winter SemesterWinter Semesterhttp://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/cinema/programs/film-studies/film-moving-image-phd/courses/archives.htmlPhD Courses 2015-2016 FMST 804 /2 New Media Theory: Genealogies of the DigitalInstructor: Joshua NevesDescription:This course explores key genealogies informing “new” and “digital” media studies, including the informal, residual, and  “pirate modernities” that exceed dominant North-Atlantic categorizations. It introduces canonical scholarship as well as recent influential work from a range of disciplines. We will examine key historical and conceptual debates ranging from cyberspace and hypertext to networks, mobility, and data, paying close attention to how such issues have shaped understandings of cinema and audiovisual culture (such as anxieties over the image, the “disappearance” of race, video cultures, etc.). In addition to key texts in new media theory, the course will consider how parallel discourses of economic, cultural, and political transformation—such as globalization, information society, neoliberalism, etc.—animate new forms of memory, intimacy, control, exposure, affect, and empire across comparative and transnational contexts. FMST 806/2, Pro-SeminarInstructor: Martin LefebvreDescription:The first part of the Pro-Seminar offers a forum for discussing problems of disciplinarity with regards to the study of film and cognate areas. The central objective is to sensitize Ph.D. students to problems facing film studies disciplinarity as part of their training. The course will be divided into two (unequal) sections: Part I: Film Studies Looks at Itself: Some Historical Developments; and Part II: The Idea of Disciplinarity: Institutional, Cultural, Epistemological Issues.     FMST 807 /4 Film Education: Historical ?Instructor: Haidee WassonDescription:This class will familiarize students with debates about knowledge-creation using a case-study method. We will focus on how archives, theory, evidence, periodization, method and the process of writing dynamically undergird scholarship. Each week will focus on research questions concerning how to theorize and research topics/phenomena that are both familiar and new or “expanded” about cinema studies. This may include examining specific films that lie outside of the established film canon (amateur, institutional, experimental), expanded technologies (portable projectors, television, youtube) and spaces (homes, fairs, galleries, factories). In short, we will seek to answer the question: how do scholars make knowledge? “Hands-on” exercises will accompany critical and theoretical debates. Attention will be paid to recent challenges to film historiography including the expanded geographies of North American Cinema Studies as well as the diversified institutions, viewing platforms, technologies and types of objects now being considered integral to film research.  FMST 880 /4 Textual Troubleshooting: ReadingInstructor: K. DickinsonDescription:Textual Troubleshooting allows doctoral candidates to nominate Film Studies and related literature with which they are having difficulty. This material then becomes the reading list for the term, each week dedicated to collectively working through scholarship that is central to one or more students' projects. Class members will be asked to frame their chosen texts both orally and via moodle and then, following the session, everyone will feed back responses to these selections with the aim of helping the proposer get a firmer grip on their field of study.PhD Courses 2014-15 FMST 800/3 Proseminar: 
 Instructors: TBA and Kay Dickinson
 Fall and Winter Terms, Thursday 13:15- 17:15
FMST 801C/2 Seminar in Film and Moving Image History: Global Media Industries
 Instructor: Marc Steinberg
 Fall term, Tuesday 13:15 to 17:15
Since the 1990s, theories of globalization have emphasized the increasingly rapid circulation of media, commodities, humans and capital. Approaching film and media from the perspective of their global or regional circulation, this course will examine topics that include: the relations between the global, the regional, the national and the local; the historical development of circuits of circulation, from classical Hollywood cinema to the contemporary festival circuit; the debates surrounding the shift from the culture industries to the creative industries; and the specific issues surrounding select national or regional cinemas. The objective of this course is to familiarize students with theoretical debates around issues of globalization and film industries, to engage with emergent and established film industries and regions that fall off the map of a still West-centric world picture, and to suggest novel approaches to this object we call global media industries. Acknowledging the inevitably partial coverage of any course on global film and media industries, this course will focus on the film and media industries of Asia – namely South Asia, East Asia, and Southeast Asia – and will mostly focus on the contemporary period, albeit with an understanding that film was “global” from its beginnings.FMST 804E/4 Seminar in Film and Moving Image Cultural Theory:Archiveology
 Instructor: Catherine Russell
 Winter term, Monday 13:15 to 17:15
In this course we will investigate theories of the archive, the culture of image recycling, and practices of image collection, storage and retrieval. Selected readings on the archive will be explored alongside the study of filmmaking practices that draw on the moving image archive. The term “archiveology” is a neologism that points to the language of images that has been a staple of compilation films and found footage films for many decades. We will follow what Hal Foster has described as “the archival turn” in contemporary art to see how this language has expanded to digital moving image art, gallery works, video essays and other forms of film and media. Because archives provide source material for academic research and for artists, it is a privileged space where theory and practice overlap; archival film practices tend to bring together critical, scholarly, and aesthetic practices. The role of moving image archives in documentary and experimental film filmmaking, compilation films and other media arts is in turn linked to practices of media storage, preservation, restoration and access; thus the course will incorporate readings and discussions about these practices and their ongoing renovation in digital culture.Classes will feature weekly screenings. Students will be expected to develop presentations around the assigned course material, and to complete a research paper that they will also present to the class.© Concordia UniversityMel Hoppenheim School of CinemaConcordia UniversityPast coursesMel Hoppenheim School of Cinema
            
                Mel Hoppenheim School of Cinema
            Join the conversationPhD courses 2015-2016
                
            
                
					
                    PhD courses 2014-2015Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/offices/archives.htmlOur team of information management professionals is there to help students, in their course assignments, and faculty, in their academic and research activities. More about our mission.RMA:
514-848-2424, ext. 7775archives@concordia.caStaff directoryHall Building
1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd West
Montreal, QC  H3G 1M8
H 1015 (10th floor)
MapMonday to Thursday
9:00 a.m. to noon
1:00 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.Policy on Records Management and ArchivesPolicy on the Acquisition of ArchivesPolicy on Email Management© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityRecords Management and ArchivesHistorical archivesPreparing your visitHistorical archivesRMA NewsContact usLocation & hoursPoliciesRelated linksJoin the ConversationConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424