http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/creative-arts-therapies/programs/art-therapy-ma.htmlArt therapy offers a rich range of life enhancing and strengthening opportunities for individuals, families and communities. Art-based approaches to healing foster non-verbal modes of communication to express emotional difficulties and diverse life-world experiences in ways that spoken language cannot. Art therapists assist individuals and groups of people in exploring forms in which visual imagery can nurture significant insights related to the psychological issues they may face and develop new ways of understanding self and others. We need art therapy researchers, scholars and practitioners to lead the development of personal and social uses of art-related health and therapeutically oriented practices and processes in the 21st century.The MA in Creative Arts Therapies, Art Therapy option, provides you with an opportunity to combine your passion for art and therapeutic work. Our distinguished faculty members have a wealth of theory and practical experience as scholars, researchers and registered art therapists. They will assist you to develop deep and wide reaching applications of the interventions, research, and clinical applications of art therapy.Benefit from two eight-month-long practicums where you will work directly with clients in conjunction with an on-site supervisor, as well as your departmental supervisor. Montreal provides a myriad of local sites to carry out your practicum, including the Centre for the Arts in Human Development and the Art Hives network connected to Concordia University. Placement possibilities include hospitals and health care institutions, community centres, geriatric facilities, and schools.The Art Therapy option is a professional program approved by the Canadian Art Therapy Association and the American Art Therapy Association. You will graduate from our program having met these association’s educational requirements to become a professional Art Therapist.  Graduates are also eligible to become professional members of the Quebec Art Therapy Association or of their provincial art therapy association. Additionally, graduates can apply for the Canadian Certified Counsellor designation offered through the Canadian Counselling and Psychotherapy Association. Requirements for the DegreeAdditionally, students choose to enter one of two streams of research in the program containing the following requirements:Research Paper - CATS 689: Research Paper (9 credits)
OR
 Applied Research Project - CATS 698: Applied Research Project with Report (6 credits) and
CATS 699: Comprehensive Exam (3 credits).Admission Requirements. Entry into the program requires a bachelor’s/baccalaureate degree with courses in Visual Arts (24 credits, which must include 18 credits in Studio Arts, and 6 credits in Art History/Art Theory/Art Education, or approved equivalents); Psychology (24 credits, which must include courses in Introductory, Developmental and Abnormal Psychology, Theories of Personality, and Strategies of Inquiry, or approved equivalents); and An Introduction to Art Therapy (3 credits). Since enrolment is limited, applicants are selected on the basis of a past academic record of no less than a B average, a 500-word letter of intent and three letters of recommendation. Applicants must submit a portfolio of up to 20 slides, clearly identified in their name. They may choose to present pictures of their work in an 8.5” x 11” plastic pocket or submit digital pictures on CD. Previous work experience in a clinical, rehabilitative or educational setting is expected. Direct experience with the therapeutic process is highly desirable.Please review the department application requirements before applying online. Read the how-to guide for general application procedures.Courses typically offered include:Consult the graduate calendar for a complete list of core Creative Arts Therapies courses and our department site for a sample course sequence.Our department hosts a semi-annual workshop for prospective students where faculty members give art therapy information sessions that include a presentation and a question and answer period. The day offers you the chance to learn more about Concordia, our program prerequisites and how to complete an application. You will also be introduced to a number of international creative arts therapy organizations.New students are automatically eligible for fellowships and select awards offered within the Faculty of Fine Arts and the School of Graduate Studies, ranging from $2,000 to $20,000 per year. Some awards have specific criteria and can be based on academic excellence and financial need.Please also consult the departmental graduate fellowships and awards page, as well as Concordia’s graduate funding page and Financial Aid and Awards.The practicum component of our program provides you with the opportunity to apply the knowledge and skills that you are acquiring in your coursework. It is the vehicle for integrating theory with clinical experience – a critical element in the development of the professional competence of an art therapist. Practicum includes both clinical experience and supervision. You must successfully complete 800 hours (350 direct client contact hours and 450 agency hours) in an approved practicum setting.Clinical experience is acquired in a variety of agencies in the greater Montreal area, providing you with a practical application of art therapy.  Supervision is provided at both the agency and at the university.You are placed in one major placement per year.The Creative Arts Therapies Student Graduate Association promotes stronger interdisciplinary ties with the Concordia community at large. Become an elected officer and participate in a number of committees that make a vital contribution to university activities.An MA in Art Therapy prepares you for careers in various sectors, including art therapy clinics, youth and family centres, and women’s shelters. Many of our graduates also work with aboriginal communities and a number of Alzheimer’s societies. Read about our alumni career stories.The practicum is of tremendous benefit in familiarizing you with the working environment. Occasionally, graduates have gone on to full or part-time work at the health care institution, school or clinic where they were initially placed as students. Graduates have found employment throughout Canada, the United States and abroad.Graduates may also choose to join professional associations such as:© Concordia UniversityAbout the department
Programs
Research
Student life
News & events
Contact usConcordia UniversityArt Therapy (MA)Department of Creative Arts Therapies
            
                Department of Creative Arts Therapies
            Key resourcesDegree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Workshops for prospective students
                
            
                
					
                    Funding
                
            
                
					
                    Practicum
                
            
                
					
                    Student initiatives
                
            
                
					
                    Your professional futureWhy pursue a master's in art therapy?Program detailsDepartment of Creative Arts Therapies Faculty of Fine ArtsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424