http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/calendar/current/fofa/arte.htmlAdmission Requirements. The normal requirement for admission is a Master of Arts degree in art education, with superior standing, from a recognized university. A candidate possessing a Master of Fine Arts degree must also complete the art education readings and research methods courses of the Master of/Magisteriate in Arts in Art Education. Applicants must have teaching experience, certification, or related professional experience. This program is recognized by the Quebec Ministry of Education for purposes of perfectionnement.Requirements for the DegreeAcademic RequirementsCoursesElective course offerings change from year to year in light of the interests of students and faculty. In any session only those courses will be given for which there is sufficient demand.ARTE 806 Inquiry Through Art Production (3 credits)
In this course students identify the content and the processes essential to their on-going studio performance. Students are expected to develop parallel inquiry into exhibitions, installations, performances, documentations, notation systems and related readings. Evaluation is based on workshop and seminar participation, studio performance and class presentations. Computer access and shared studio space are available. This course may be repeated as ARTE 807.ARTE 850 Selected Topics in Art Education (3 credits)
A seminar course offering students the opportunity to study various aspects of art education. Specific topics vary from year to year to take advantage of the special expertise of the faculty.ARTE 867 Directed Studies in Art Education I (3 credits)
Independent study in the area of concentration.ARTE 868 Directed Studies in Art Education II (3 credits)
Independent study in the area of concentration.ARTE 870 Critical Perspectives on Art Education: History, Theory and Practice (3 credits)
A seminar course in which students develop critical reading and writing skills while adding to their understanding of developments past and present that have shaped the field of art education.ARTE 872 Advanced Critical Analysis (3 credits)
Prerequisite: ARTE 870.
A seminar course in which students develop advanced skills in critical analysis, academic writing and library research. Assignments include compiling and writing a review of literature related to thesis research. Students develop questions related to their area of research and professional interest to be used on their PhD comprehensive examination.ARTE 882 Research Practice (3 credits)
A seminar course in which students conduct a small scale research project based on their own research proposal.ARTE 883 Comprehensive Examination (no credit)
Each student must successfully complete the doctoral comprehensive examination in order to be admitted to candidacy. The comprehensive examination is composed of written and oral components.ARTE 884 Doctoral Seminar (3 credits)
This course addresses research and communication, thesis writing, and professional practice.ARTE 890 Research and Thesis (63 credits)
Includes thesis proposal and its approval by the Thesis Advisory Committee, Research (including any further study that may be required to gain needed expertise), written thesis and oral examination. Students are encouraged to periodically present their research-in-progress to academic and professional audiences.The following courses are cross-listed at the MA and PhD levels:TopAdmission Requirements. A Bachelor of Fine Arts or a Bachelor of Arts with specialization in art education or its equivalent is required. An overall grade average of B or better is expected. In addition, the applicant is expected to have had experience in the teaching of art or art-related subjects.Requirements for the DegreePrograms of Study.The MA (Art Education) Thesis Option is suitable for students seeking to develop in-depth research expertise, and whose goals include doctoral studies and/or research-oriented professional positions.The MA (Art Education) Courses Option is suitable for students who seek advanced levels of professional development rather than in-depth training as researchers.* Elective Courses must be selected in consultation with the Program Advisor and approved by the Graduate Program Director. Some restrictions apply; for more details consult the department.Academic RegulationsCoursesEach year required courses and certain electives are offered. Course descriptions and schedules are available in the department’s graduate programs office.ARTE 606 Topics in Studio Inquiry (3 credits)
In this course students identify the content and the processes essential to their on-going studio performance. Students are expected to develop parallel inquiry into exhibitions, installations, performances, documentations, notation systems and related readings. Evaluation is based on workshop and seminar participation, studio performance and class presentations. Computer access and shared studio space are available. This course may be repeated as ARTE 607, 608, 609, 610, 611.ARTE 660 Selected Topics in Art Education (3 credits)
A seminar course offering students the opportunity to study various aspects of art education. Specific topics vary from year to year to take advantage of the special expertise of the faculty.ARTE 670 Critical Perspectives on Art Education History: History, Theory and Practice (3 credits)
A seminar course in which students develop critical reading and writing skills while adding to their understanding of developments past and present that have shaped the field of art education.ARTE 672 Advanced Critical Analysis (3 credits)
Prerequisite: ARTE 670.
A seminar course in which students develop advanced skills in critical analysis, academic writing and library research. Assignments include compiling and writing a review of literature on a topic of research or professional interest.ARTE 680 Foundations for Inquiry (3 credits)
A seminar course in which students are introduced to the basic concepts, terminology, and contexts of inquiry in art education. Students learn about the practice of systematic inquiry, including: identifying and articulating a topic or question; situating the inquiry within a theoretical framework; relating the inquiry to art education practices; and selecting appropriate inquiry procedures. Each student develops a proposal for a small-scale project related to his/her particular art education interests.ARTE 682 Research Practice (3 credits)
Prerequisite: ARTE 680.
A seminar course in which students conduct a small-scale research project based on their own research proposal. Students are introduced to appropriate forms and practices for conducting the project and presenting the results.ARTE 698 Thesis
The thesis topic is chosen in consultation with the thesis supervisor, and is approved by the thesis advisory committee. Students produce a thesis proposal; conduct the proposed inquiry; produce the thesis; and present it orally to their thesis advisory committee. Guidelines for the thesis are described in Thesis Preparation and Thesis Examination Regulations available from the School of Graduate Studies and Art Education’s Master of Arts Thesis Procedures available from the department’s programs office.Scholarly Thesis (24 credits)
Students develop a research based scholarly thesis in consultation with the faculty supervisor. The thesis is a minimum of 20,000 words and must address a research question or problem through an empirical or philosophical investigation. The thesis must include a discussion that documents the student’s reflections upon the methods and procedures employed, and the actual findings that resulted from an examination of the problem. The thesis culminates in a discussion of its implications for art education theory and/or practice. The thesis is presented to the advisory committee for evaluation, and for defence in an oral examination.Studio-based Thesis (24 credits)
Students develop a cohesive body of artwork for presentation and a minimum 10,000 word written thesis component comprising a review of literature and other relevant resources, a theoretical and methodological contextualization, a critical reflection on the project and its outcomes, a linking of art making with art education and other areas of analysis as deemed necessary by the student and the student’s advisory committee. The artwork and text, together comprising the thesis, are presented to the advisory committee. Evaluation includes an oral examination on both components.Teaching-based Thesis (24 credits)
Students organize and conduct a professional teaching project, develop a teaching dossier, and write a thesis text directly related to art education, with the guidance of the faculty supervisor. The project may be carried out on site in an educational setting or institution. In the written component of the thesis (minimum10,000 words) students document, analyze and evaluate the project, presenting a literature review, a theoretical and methodological contextualization, and a critical reflection on the project and its outcomes. Evaluation includes an oral examination on this text, on the teaching portfolio, and on the outcomes of the project.ARTE 664 Independent Study(3 credits)
ARTE 665 Independent Study (3 credits)The following courses are cross-listed at the MA and PhD levels:Top© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
Art EducationPrograms
Doctor of/Doctorate in Philosophy (Art Education)
Master of/Magisteriate in Arts (Art Education)Department of Art Education WebsiteConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424