http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/biochemistry.htmlBiochemistry may not give you the answers to the meaning of life, but it can tell you how life works. As a biochemist, you will study the chemical processes that occur within the cells of living organisms. You could use your knowledge of cellular processes and molecular inheritance to combat disease, engineer pest-resistant crops, or develop microorganisms to clean up oil spills.Our state-of-the-art labs and equipment include the Biomolecular Function, Interactions and Structure facility (BIOFINS) which houses a collection of instruments that is unique in Eastern Canada. Small class sizes foster strong student–professor relationships, and our teaching labs introduce you to the techniques used in the field. You will also:Concordia’s honours and specialization in Biochemistry programs are accredited by the Ordre des chimistes du Québec.
A Bachelor of Science degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90–120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background.Concentrations:See full degree requirements in the Undergraduate Calendar.Minimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
 Each of our programs comprises a core component taken by all students. Specialization and honours students take additional courses at the intermediate and advanced levels.Full details of individual programs and course descriptions can be found in the Undergraduate Calendar.Each student will receive a package of information regarding the Registration process, which includes the registration dates. Students must see a Department Advisor who will help in choosing the courses and planning their programme. Unless you are a returning student it is mandatory to have an advisor approve your courses before Registration. You must make an appointment with an advisor:Telephone: (514) 848-2424, Ext. 3355Make sure you bring a copy of your academic record and your letter of admission when you meet the advisor.The normal course load for a full-time student is 30 credits for the academic year (Note: enrolling in less than 24 credits in an academic year will make a student ineligible for many scholarships, bursaries and loans).To request permission for a course overload, course substitution or to take a course without the required prerequisite, a student must obtain a Departmental Student Request form from SP-201.01. When the form has been filled in and the appropriate documents attached, it should be given to the Receptionist in room SP-201.01.Please read the Undergraduate Calendar for deadlines (Section 11) and regulations (Section 16) regarding course changes, withdrawals, etc. Make sure that you understand the Degree Requirements (Section 31.003) and Academic Performance Regulations (Section 31.003.1) for the Faculty of Arts and Science.A number of scholarships and prizes are available to students in the Department. Some of these are awarded before starting the program of study at Concordia, such as, Entrance Scholarships, while others are awarded during the course of studies, such as, In-Course Scholarships. There are also Federal and Provincial Loans and Bursaries for eligible candidates. Further information is available in Section 18.6 of the Undergraduate Calendar.The Co-op program gives you the chance to complete paid work terms that last 12 to 16 weeks. As a Co-op student, you will work for firms where you may:Learn more about our Co-op program.Concordia University's Science College provides a unique forum where students interested in the sciences can prepare for a life of research, teaching or any challenging pursuit or profession in the sciences.Founded in 1979, the Science College espouses the following well-defined, distinct, and important concepts of science education: student participation in laboratory research activities from the first year on and a curriculum emphasizing cross-disciplinary thinking as well as intensive student-faculty and student-student interaction.Find out more about the Science College.RISE is a summer student exchange program providing undergraduate students with opportunities to carry out original research and gain hands-on experience in the use of modern instrumental and other experimental techniques. The RISE Group is a collection of scientists at almost twenty institutions in Canada, whose research emphasizes the study of chemical or biochemical reaction mechanisms. Read more about the RISE program.ICE offers summer employment opportunities to 12 qualified candidates from across Canada. The awards are for a summer research assistantship at an institution other than your own, in the laboratory of an ICE faculty member. Read more about the ICE program.
Some Biochemistry alumni pursue graduate studies. Others establish careers in the pharmaceutical and health science sectors, environmental or government laboratories, or in genetic engineering, biotechnology and nanotechnology.A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityBiochemistry (BSc)Related programsKey resourcesJoin the ConversationDegree options
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Registration
                
            
                
					
                    Financial information
                
            
                
					
                    Co-op program
                
            
                
					
                    Science College
                
            
                
					
                    Exchange programs
                
            
                
					
                    After your degreeWhy study Biochemistry?Program detailsUnited States  studentsBachelor of Science (BSc)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Cegep StudentsMinimum Cut-off AveragesReactive Intermediates Student Exchange (RISE)Inorganic Chemistry Exchange (ICE)