http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/biology/programs/undergraduate/bsc-biology.htmlGet inspired by life. Immerse yourself in the study of life at all levels, from cell biology and the physiology of multicellular organisms to the interactions between organisms and their environment. Build a strong basis in the essentials, then choose the right topics for your chosen path.Our Biology Department features teaching labs with state-of-the-art equipment that introduce you to the various techniques used in biology research. Small class sizes foster strong student-professor relationships. As a Biology student, you'll follow the Biology core curriculum and additional Biology courses based on your interests. Through labs, lectures and tutorials you will:Concordia’s hands-on approach provides a solid foundation for a career in the life sciences or environmental sciences, or paves the way for future graduate studies.A Bachelor of Science degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background.Options:Minimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
 Sample classesCourse descriptions
 Curriculum requirementsRequired Biology credits are as follows:Each option also has specific required and optional courses. See the curriculum for each option.Undergraduate students in the Department of Biology have excellent opportunities to carry out individualized, original research projects in the laboratory of an externally-funded research group under the supervision of a faculty member. Learn more about undergraduate researchThe Co-op program gives you the chance to complete paid work terms that last 12 to 16 weeks. As a Co-op student, you will work for firms where you may:Learn more about our Co-op program.Biology undergraduates have the foundation to pursue graduate studies or medicine. Biology alumni have established careers in a variety of science fields that include:The Specialization and Honours programs prepare students for a career in the biological sciences, including graduate studies. The Major program can be combined with a degree in another department based on interest or to target niche careers that combine multiple expertise. For example, a student interested in a career in management of a biotechnology company or governmental regulatory agency might combine a Major in Biology with a major program in business or communications.Download What can I do with a Career in Biology?© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityBiology (BSc)Department of Biology
            
                Department of Biology
            Key resourcesJoin the conversationProgram options & degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Undergraduate research
                
            
                
					
                    Co-op program
                
            
                
					
                    After your degreeWhy study Biology?Program detailsBachelor of Science (BSc)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Cegep StudentsMinimum Cut-off Averages