http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/biology/programs/undergraduate/bsc-ecology.htmlLearn about the amazing web of life that we are embedded in. When you study Ecology, your field of view opens to reveal the intricate relationships among all living things. As an ecologist, you will explore the connections among different organisms and their interaction with soil, air, water and radiation from the sun. This program will prepare you to conduct research on ecology and evolution, monitor and manage living resources, engage in sustainable development, be a champion for biodiversity, and protect the planet.Our Biology Department features a computer lab and teaching labs that will introduce you to the state-of-the-art analysis tools used in ecology research. Small class sizes foster strong student-professor relationships. As an Ecology student, you'll follow the Biology core curriculum and additional courses focused on Ecology. Through labs, lectures and tutorials you'll also:Concordia’s hands-on approach provides a solid foundation for a career in the sciences or paves the way for future graduate studies.A Bachelor of Science degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background.Options:Minimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
 Sample classesCourse descriptions
 Curriculum requirementsRequired Biology credits are as follows:Each option also has specific required and optional courses. See the curriculum for each option.Undergraduate students in the Department of Biology have excellent opportunities to carry out individualized, original research projects in the laboratory of an externally-funded research group under the supervision of a faculty member. Learn more about undergraduate researchEcology undergraduates have the foundation to pursue graduate studies or establish careers in fields including:© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityEcology (BSc)Department of Biology
            
                Department of Biology
            Key resourcesJoin the conversationProgram options & degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Undergraduate research
                
            
                
					
                    After your degreeWhy study Ecology?Program detailsBachelor of Science (BSc)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Cegep StudentsMinimum Cut-off Averages