http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/calendar/current/jmsb/busiadmi.htmlAdmission Requirements. Students are accepted only for full-time study. To be considered for admission, applicants must have a master’s degree or equivalent with high academic standing. Meritorious students enrolled in the Master of Science program at the John Molson School of Business who have completed all program requirements except for the thesis may apply for permission to proceed directly to doctoral studies in the same discipline without submitting a master’s thesis. These students are expected to meet the same PhD program requirements as all other students. Applicants must select their area of specialization from the departments of Accountancy, Supply Chain and Business Technology Management, Finance, Management or Marketing, at the time of application. Enrolment in the program is strictly limited and applicants are selected on the basis of past academic record, letters of recommendation and the relevance of their proposed research to the areas of specialization of the department concerned. Applicants must submit proof of satisfactory performance (600+) on the Graduate Management Admissions Test (GMAT) within the previous five years. Requests to transfer to another specialization are treated within the normal application process in the new area of specialization.Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL). Applicants whose first language is not English or French and who are not Canadian citizens or landed immigrants must obtain a satisfactory score in the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iBT) before being considered for admission. This requirement will be waived for foreign students completing their undergraduate degrees at a university where English or French is the language of instruction.Concordia Comprehensive ESL Placement Test (ConCEPT). Applicants who have been admitted by a program and whose test results fall within the range requiring a language placement test must write the Concordia Comprehensive ESL Placement Test (ConCEPT).Language Requirement. The language of instruction at Concordia University is English. However, students who also have capacity in French will be able to best profit from the joint nature of the program. In particular, the ability to read technical material and to follow lectures and discussions in both languages is an asset. Students may write reports, examinations and the thesis in English or in French as they choose.Requirements for the DegreeAcademic RegulationsCoursesPhase I (Qualifying) Additional fees per credit will apply.MSCA 602 Applied Linear Statistical Models (3 credits) *
MSCA 683 Applied Multivariate Data Analysis (3 credits) ** May not be required depending on previous studies.Phase II (Required Courses)ADMI 870 Research Methodology in Management or approved equivalent (3 credits)
ADMI 880 Pedagogical Methods or approved equivalent (3 credits)
ADMI 889 Comprehensive Examinations (6 credits)Phase II (Elective Courses) Minimum of 4 courses (12 credits) in the area of specialization plus 1 additional course (3 credits)Elective courses offered in the following disciplines vary in content from term to term and from year to year. All seminars are 3 credits.ADMI 800-809 Business Economics
ADMI 810-819 Organizational Behaviour
ADMI 820-829 Decision Sciences and Management Information Systems
ADMI 830-839 Marketing
ADMI 840-849 Finance
ADMI 850-859 Business Policy and Strategy
ADMI 860-869 Accountancy and ControlPhase III (Thesis)ADMI 890 Thesis (60 credits)Top© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
Business AdministrationDoctor of/Doctorate in Philosophy (Business Administration)PhD Business Administration WebsiteConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424