http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/religion/research/canadian-jewish-studies.htmlThe Concordia University Institute for Canadian Jewish Studies, chaired by Dr. Ira Robinson, Professor in the Department of Religion, is dedicated to the study of the Canadian Jewish experience. Through research and education, the Institute supports a wide range of projects of local, national, and international interest, which contribute to this growing field of enquiry. In addition, the Institute is committed to providing resources, learning and other culturally enriching experiences within the Jewish community and its institutions. It works in close association with community organizations such as the Canadian Jewish Congress Archives and Montreal's Jewish Public Library, as well as the Association for Canadian Jewish Studies in order to foster both the scholarly study of Canadian Jewry as well as the dissemination of the results of this scholarly study to the general public.

The Institute for Canadian Jewish Studies continues to focus on a wide range of publishing, student and community oriented events, fellowships, courses, and offers a Scholars-in-Residence Programme. We have made further efforts to serve the immediate needs and interests of Concordia's Jewish students through events such as a series of talks by community and academic specialists.

We are delighted to announce our new initiative for students: The Student Journal of Canadian Jewish Studies. This web-based journal provides a forum for undergraduate and graduate essays and book reviews relating to the Jewish experience in Canada, thus providing an excellent opportunity for students to publish work in an academic context. Work from any discipline relating to the Jewish experience in Canada will be considered, and authors of published papers will receive a stipend to further encourage their work in this field. We encourage those who are interested in any of our programmes or initiatives to access our website for further details.The Institute for Canadian Jewish Studies houses the Avriel Butovsky Library and the catalogue can be found at: The Avriel Butovsky Library. For more information about the library please visit our site. 
The Concordia University Chair in Canadian Jewish Studies is dedicated to the study of the Canadian Jewish experience. Through research and education, the Chair supports a wide range of projects of local, national, and international interest, which contribute to this growing field of inquiry. Together with the Concordia University Institute for Canadian Jewish Studies, the Chair provides a bridge between the academic study of Canadian Jewry and the community in which it serves. The Chair, responsible for the academic study of Canadian Jewry, and the Institute, responsible for community activities, represent an unprecedented partnership.Visit the CUCCJS's website© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityCanadian Jewish StudiesDepartment of Religion
            
                Department of Religion
            Chair in Canadian Jewish StudiesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424