http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/calendar/current/fofa/cats.htmlAdmission Requirements. Entry into the program requires a bachelor’s/baccalaureate degree with courses in Visual Arts (24 credits, which must include 18 credits in Studio Arts, and 6 credits in Art History/Art Theory/Art Education, or approved equivalents); Psychology (24 credits, which must include courses in Introductory, Developmental and Abnormal Psychology, Theories of Personality, and Strategies of Inquiry, or approved equivalents); and An Introduction to Art Therapy (3 credits). Since enrolment is limited, applicants are selected on the basis of a past academic record of no less than a B average, a 500-word letter of intent and three letters of recommendation. Applicants must submit a portfolio of up to 20 slides, clearly identified in their name. They may choose to present pictures of their work in an 8.5” x 11” plastic pocket or submit digital pictures on CD. Previous work experience in a clinical, rehabilitative or educational setting is expected. Direct experience with the therapeutic process is highly desirable.Requirements for the DegreeAdditionally, students choose to enter one of two streams of research in the program containing the following requirements:Research Paper - CATS 689: Research Paper (9 credits)
OR
 Applied Research Project - CATS 698: Applied Research Project with Report (6 credits) and
CATS 699: Comprehensive Exam (3 credits).TopAcademic RegulationsTopAdmission Requirements. Entry into the program requires a bachelor’s/baccalaureate degree with courses in Theatre (24 credits or approved equivalents): Psychology (24 credits, which must include courses in Introductory, Developmental, and Abnormal Psychology, Theories of Personality, and a research methodology course to be approved by an academic faculty advisor, or approved equivalents); and An Introduction to Drama Therapy (3 credits). Since enrolment is limited, applicants are selected on the basis of a past academic record of no less than a B average, a 500-word letter of intent, and three letters of recommendation. Applicants must submit documentation, which may include video material of their involvement in drama and theatre. Previous work experience in a clinical, rehabilitative, or educational setting is expected. Direct experience with the therapeutic process is highly desirable.Requirements for the DegreeAdditionally, students choose to enter one of two streams of research in the program containing the following requirements:Research Paper - CATS 689: Research Paper (9 credits)
OR
Applied Research Project - CATS 698: Applied Research Project with Report (6 credits) and
CATS 699: Comprehensive Exam (3 credits).Academic RegulationsTopAdmission Requirements. Entry into the program requires either: 1) a bachelor’s/baccalaureate degree in Music Therapy with a 1,000-hour internship (or equivalent); OR 2) a Graduate Certificate or Diploma in Music Therapy (or equivalent). Applicants are selected on the basis of a past academic record of no less than a B- average (3.00 on a 4.30 scale), or equivalent, a 500-word letter of intent, a curriculum vitae, and three letters of recommendation.Requirements for the DegreeThree additional elective credits, to be chosen in consultation with an academic faculty advisor, from: MTHY 624 and MTHY 625.Academic RegulationsAcademic Standing. Students are expected to complete all courses credited towards the MA in Creative Arts Therapy, Music Therapy option with a grade of B- or higher (overall minimum GPA of 3.00 on a 4.30 scale).C Rule. Under certain conditions, one C grade may be permitted. Students should consult the School of Graduate Studies’ guidelines and policies regarding the minimum standards for Master’s/Magisteriate Programs (see Academic Regulations section).F Rule. Students who receive a failing grade during the course of their studies will be withdrawn from the program, but may apply in writing to the Program Director for readmission. Students who receive another failing grade after re-admission will be withdrawn from the program and will not be considered for re-admission.Time Limit. It is expected that students will normally complete the proposed program within 3 terms (1 year) of full-time study from the time of initial registration in the program. In accordance with university policies, however, all work for the graduate program must be completed within 12 terms (4 years) from the time of initial registration in the program; for part-time students, the time limit is 15 terms (5 years).Graduation Requirement. In order to graduate, students must have a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.00 on a 4.30 scale.TopAdmission Requirements. Entry into the program requires a bachelor’s/baccalaureate degree with courses in Music (24 credits, which must include 6 credits in Musicology and 12 credits in Music Theory, or equivalents); Psychology (24 credits, which must include courses in Introductory, Developmental, and Abnormal Psychology, Theories of Personality, and Research Methodology, or equivalents); and Introduction to Music Therapy (3 credits), or equivalent. Applicants must show evidence of: primary instrument/voice performance abilities at the level of completion of a bachelor’s degree in Music; piano performance abilities at Grade 6 Royal Conservatory of Music level, and fundamental guitar and voice skills. (Those invited for interview provide a video recording of performances of two selections on each instrument). Since enrolment is limited, applicants are selected on the basis of a past academic record of no less than a B- average (3.00 on a 4.30 scale), or equivalent, a 500-word letter of intent, a curriculum vitae; and three letters of recommendation. Previous experience in a clinical, rehabilitative or educational setting is expected. Direct experience with the therapeutic process is highly desirable.Proficiency in English. Applicants whose first language is not English or French, and who are not Canadian citizens or permanent residents, must achieve a satisfactory performance in the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) or the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) before being considered for admission. The minimum required score for the TOEFL iBT is 80 and 550 for TOEFL PBT. The IELTS requires a minimum Band score of 6.5. This requirement is waived for foreign students who have completed their undergraduate degree at a university where English or French is the language of instruction. The Program reserves the right to require applicants to write tests of competence in English as a second language and to take any English courses deemed necessary as a result of such tests. These language proficiency courses are not counted towards the Graduate Diploma in Music Therapy credit requirements.Proficiency in French. While there are no formal French proficiency requirements, students intending to work in Québec are strongly encouraged to develop a working knowledge of French.Requirements for the DiplomaCredits. A fully qualified candidate is required to complete 28 credits.Courses. Candidates in the Graduate Diploma in Music Therapy program must take 28 credits of core courses (with a 3-credit value, unless otherwise specified): MTHY 501, MTHY 502 (2 credits), MTHY 503 (1 credit), MTHY 504 (1 credit), MTHY 510, MTHY 511, MTHY 512 (9 credits), MTHY 521 and CATS 611. As part of course requirements in MTHY 510, MTHY 511, and MTHY 512, each student must successfully complete a minimum of 1,200 hours in the practice of music therapy, under faculty supervision, in approved practicum settings. Practicum experiences include individual and group formats with children, adolescents and adults and with a minimum of three different client groups.Academic RegulationsAcademic Standing. Students are expected to complete all courses credited towards the Graduate Diploma in Music Therapy with a grade of B or higher.C Rule. Under certain conditions, one C grade may be permitted. Students should consult with their Graduate Program Director.F Rule. Students who receive a failing grade during the course of their studies are withdrawn from the program, but may apply in writing to the Program Director for readmission. Students who receive another failing grade after readmission are withdrawn from the program and are not considered for readmission.Time Limit. It is expected that students normally complete the graduate diploma program within one year. In accordance with university policies, however, all work for the diploma program must be completed within no longer than six terms (two years) from the time of initial registration in the program and within no longer than 12 terms (four years) for part-time students.Graduation Requirement. In order to graduate, students must have a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.00.TopCATS 609 Introduction to Dance/Movement Therapy (3 credits)
This course provides an introduction to the foundations and primary concepts of dance/movement therapy and explores their relevance and applications to other creative arts therapies modalities through experiential, somatic, and theoretical approaches.CATS 610 Introduction to Topics in Clinical Psychology for Creative Arts Therapists (3 credits)
This seminar introduces creative arts therapists to the various psychopathologies, their symptomatologies, etiologies, current Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM) diagnostic criteria, and treatments.
Note: Credit received for CATS 610 cannot be applied towards a graduate program in Psychology.CATS 611 Counselling Skills for Creative Arts Therapists (3 credits)
This course introduces basic skills and practices of counselling and psychotherapy for creative arts therapists. It provides the opportunity to explore, develop, and practice the skills required for effective therapeutic interventions across varied theoretical orientations and treatment approaches. The course focuses on the therapeutic relationship and the therapeutic frame.CATS 615 Independent Practicum in the Creative Arts Therapies (3 credits)
Prerequisites: ATRP 613, 614.
With the Department’s approval and in agreement with a faculty supervisor, additional practicum experience is offered on an individual basis to students in special circumstances. A case study is required.CATS 631A Selected Issues in the Creative Arts Therapies (3 credits)
This course may be repeated as CATS 631B, 631C, etc.CATS 636 Independent Studies in Creative Arts Therapies (3 credits)
This course may be repeated as CATS 637.CATS 638 Creative Process in Clinical Practice for Creative Arts Therapists (3 credits)
This course provides experiential learning in the clinical application of creative projection techniques through a methodology based on exploring character in myth and fairy tale. The creative process is examined through readings, discussions, masks, movement, music and drama.CATS 639 Interdisciplinary Topics: Cross-cultural Competence in the Creative Arts Therapies (1 credit)
This course presents cross-cultural competence as an ethical obligation, providing an overview of multi-cultural counselling theory. Students explore challenges and opportunities arising in creative arts therapies clinical practice within an environment of cultural diversity as it relates to both the therapist and the client.CATS 640 Studio Media and Practice for Creative Arts Therapists (3 credits)
Students develop skills with a variety of studio media and processes in their own creative arts discipline, while experiencing the media and creative process of an allied discipline. Commonalities and factors unique to each are examined for their potential in interdisciplinary practice.CATS 641 Interdisciplinary Topics: Ethics in Clinical Practice in the Creative Arts Therapies (1 credit)
This course covers ethical standards and requirements for clinical practice as established by both professional mental health and creative arts therapies associations. Students become familiar with expectations of professional and personal conduct as well as models for ethical decision-making. Students also gain an understanding of their personal value systems in relation to their work as creative arts therapists and how those values may inform ethical decision-making within their clinical practice.CATS 643 Interdisciplinary Topics: Ethics in Research in the Creative Arts Therapies (1 credit)
This course covers ethical standards and requirements for research as established by both professional mental health and creative arts therapies associations. Students become familiar with expectations of professional and personal conduct with respect to research in the field, including research protocols for both the Department of Creative Arts Therapies and Concordia University.CATS 645 Family Systems and the Creative Arts Therapies (3 credits)
Family systems theory is introduced and specific theories and practices of family therapy are considered. Indications for the use of family therapy and its integration with the creative arts therapies are explored, as are specific methods of assessment and intervention.CATS 689 Research Paper (9 credits)
Prerequisite: CATS 691.
The research paper is the formal culmination of graduate studies in the creative arts therapies. This paper includes a literature review, and may also include methodology, specific procedures, research population or sample, data collection and analysis, as appropriate to the topic approved by the Creative Arts Therapies Research and Ethics Committee. Students develop their proposals for this paper as a course requirement for CATS 691, to be submitted for approval to the Research and Ethics Committee in the winter term of their first year in the program. The Committee will then assign one faculty member in the Department to supervise each paper. The nine-credit component appears on the student record only once the final version of the research paper has been submitted to the Thesis Office and the Graduate Grade Activity Report Form, granting a grade of PASS, has been submitted to the Office of the Registrar.CATS 691 Research in the Creative Arts Therapies (3 credits)
This course presents an overview of qualitative research, theory and methodology, and their application to the creative arts therapies. Students develop critical reading skills and explore ethical issues involved in research.CATS 698 Applied Research Project with Report (6 credits)
The student chooses this option to further explore specific pilot project reports, feasibility studies and creative research designs utilizing media intrinsic to the creative arts therapies. All applied projects must include a written component and be presented as a public seminar upon completion.CATS 699 Comprehensive Exam (3 credits)Creative Arts Therapies Courses (Art Therapy Option)ATRP 600 Readings in Art Therapy (3 credits)
This course provides grounding in significant schools of psychological thought and their relevance to art therapy. It also promotes advanced knowledge and understanding of the therapeutic relationship and process from a psychodynamic perspective. Studied psychotherapeutic models include: psychodynamic, object relations, humanistic, cognitive-behavioural, as well as theories of trauma.ATRP 602 Assessment Techniques in Art Therapy (3 credits)
This course emphasizes an understanding and experience of the purpose and process of various assessments in art therapy. The theory and practice of art therapy assessment in both clinical work and research are reviewed within the context of different populations.ATRP 603 Symbolic Imagery and Art Therapy - Studio/Workshop (3 credits)
Through experiential art workshops and readings, symbols and the symbolic/metaphoric function are examined with reference to various psychological models, including Freudian psychoanalysis, Jungian analytical psychology and Hillman’s archetypal/imaginal psychology. Students develop an understanding of art therapy methodology by exploring personal imagery.ATRP 604 Group and Family Art Therapy (3 credits)
This course provides a dialectical, experiential and practical examination of the major approaches to group dynamics, including psychodynamic, humanistic, systemic, and theories of communication. Stages, theories and clinical applications of group art therapy processes are explored.ATRP 613 Art Therapy Practicum Supervision I (3 credits)
In this course, students acquire skills in the implementation of the principles of psychotherapy within the practices of art therapy with a selected population. Students learn observation and assessment procedures, treatment planning, skills in establishing and maintaining the therapeutic relationship, on-going evaluation, methods of clinical documentation, and professional reporting in multidisciplinary teams. Individual and group supervision are provided. A minimum of 150 practicum hours is required.ATRP 614 Art Therapy Practicum Supervision II (3 credits)
Prerequisite: ATRP 613.
This course is a continuation of ATRP 613. A minimum of 200 practicum hours is required.ATRP 620 Art Therapy Advanced Clinical Skills (3 credits)
This course is designed to refine students’ clinical skills and deepen understanding of the practice of art therapy from a psychodynamic perspective. Through role-play experience and clinical discussion in a seminar format, therapeutic issues which students encounter during their fieldwork are explored.ATRP 623 Advanced Art Therapy Practicum Supervision I (3 credits)
Prerequisites: ATRP 613, 614.
This course is designed to promote the consolidation of students’ abilities in the practice of art therapy, to further develop clinical skills, and deepen psychotherapeutic understanding. Individual and group supervision are provided. Case presentations, readings and clinical analysis of therapeutic issues are integral to this course. A minimum of 200 practicum hours is required.ATRP 624 Advanced Art Therapy Practicum Supervision II (3 credits)
Prerequisites: ATRP 613, 614, 623.
This course is a continuation of ATRP 623. A minimum of 250 practicum hours is required.ATRP 630 Child and Adolescent Art Therapy (3 credits)
This course promotes an understanding of the theory and practice of art therapy with children and adolescents. Clinical applications of art therapy within diverse child and adolescent populations are examined with reference to the systemic, psychodynamic and cognitive models. Appropriate use of artistic media and play techniques are studied.ATRP 693 Research in Art Therapy (3 credits)
Prerequisite: CATS 691.
This course is designed to foster the acquisition of knowledge and methodological tools in arts-based, qualitative and quantitative methods relevant to the field of art therapy. Emphasis is placed on the use of the practical tools necessary to conduct reliable and valid research.Creative Arts Therapies Courses (Drama Therapy Option)DTHY 600 Current Approaches to Drama Therapy (3 credits)
This course provides grounding in significant theoretical theories of drama therapy and correlating schools of psychological thought and their relevance to drama therapy. It also promotes advanced knowledge and understanding of the therapeutic relationship and process from several drama therapy, psychodynamic, and psychotherapeutic perspectives. Studied psychotherapeutic models include: psychodynamic, object relations, humanistic, cognitive-behavioural, as well as theories of trauma. Drama therapy models include: role theory, projective techniques, therapeutic theatre, the use of story, and performance techniques.DTHY 603 Improvisation and Drama Therapy - Studio/Workshop (3 credits)
This course focuses on developing skills in adapting methods of dramatic improvisation for the purpose of therapy, including exploration of projective, playback and psychodramatic techniques. Attention is given to the theory of distancing in terms of therapeutic process and dramatic form.DTHY 604 Drama Therapy and Groups (3 credits)
This course provides a dialectical, experiential and practical examination of the major approaches to group dynamics, including psychodynamic, humanistic, systemic, and theories of communication. Stages, theories and clinical applications of group drama therapy processes are explored.DTHY 613 Drama Therapy Practicum Supervision I (3 credits)
In this course, students acquire skills in the implementation of the principles of psychotherapy within the practices of drama therapy with a selected population. Students learn observation and assessment procedures, treatment planning, skills in establishing and maintaining the therapeutic relationship, on-going evaluation, methods of clinical documentation, and professional reporting in multidisciplinary teams. Individual and group supervision are provided. A minimum of 150 practicum hours is required.DTHY 614 Drama Therapy Practicum Supervision II (3 credits)
Prerequisite: DTHY 613.
This course is a continuation of DTHY 613. A minimum of 200 practicum hours is required.DTHY 623 Advanced Drama Therapy Practicum Supervision I (3 credits)
Prerequisites: DTHY 613, 614.
This course is designed to promote the consolidation of students’ abilities in the practice of drama therapy, to further develop clinical skills, and deepen psychotherapeutic understanding. Individual and group supervision are provided. Case presentations, readings and clinical analysis of therapeutic issues are integral to this course. A minimum of 200 practicum hours is required.DTHY 624 Advanced Drama Therapy Practicum Supervision II (3 credits)
Prerequisites: DTHY 613, 614, 623.
This course is a continuation of DTHY 623. A minimum of 250 practicum hours is required.DTHY 643 Sociodrama and Psychodrama (3 credits)
Sociodrama and psychodrama practices are examined for their use as treatment modalities in drama therapy. Seminars and experiential methods of instruction integrate their practice into the aims and principles of drama therapy.DTHY 644 Child and Adolescent Drama Therapy (3 credits)
This course focuses on the methodologies, processes, and assessment techniques as they relate to drama therapy, play and play therapy with children and adolescents, and their families.DTHY 645 Assessment in Drama Therapy (3 credits)
Prerequisite: DTHY 644.
This course explores assessment tools developed in the field of drama therapy, including those based on such dramatic media as storytelling, role-plays, puppets and masks. The theory and practice of drama therapy assessment in both clinical work and research are reviewed within the context of different populations.DTHY 693 Research in Drama Therapy (3 credits)
Prerequisite: CATS 691.
This course is designed to foster the acquisition of knowledge and methodological tools in arts-based, qualitative and quantitative methods relevant to the field of drama therapy. Emphasis is placed on the use of the practical tools necessary to conduct reliable and valid research.Creative Arts Therapies Courses (Music Therapy Option)MTHY 600 Music Therapy Advanced Literature (3 credits)
In this course, students examine music therapy and related literature in order to deepen their understanding of the influences on their own clinical and conceptual work. Cultural, musical, and theoretical frameworks are analyzed; these include psychodynamic, humanistic, cognitive behavioural, and other frameworks. Emphasis is placed on the integration of theory and music therapy process, assessment, intervention, and evidence-based practice.MTHY 601 Music Therapy Supervision, Teaching, and Learning (3 credits)
Examination of current theories and practices in clinical music therapy supervision and in university teaching and learning. Through lectures, demonstrations, and applied practice, students develop the necessary advanced professional competencies for clinical supervision and for excellence in teaching and learning. Topics include, but are not limited to, learning styles, teaching strategies, infusion of technology in instruction, and the creation of effective learning communities.MTHY 602 Advanced Clinical Improvisation in Music Therapy I (1.5 credits)
This course explores the applications of clinical improvisation processes in therapy and assessment. The specific focus is determined by identified student strengths and needs, and may include Nordoff and Robbins techniques; advanced piano techniques; analytical music therapy; and others.MTHY 603 Advanced Clinical Improvisation in Music Therapy II (1.5 credits)
Prerequisite: MTHY 602, or equivalent.
Advanced study in clinical improvisation techniques in music therapy. The specific focus is determined by the identified student experience, strengths, and needs, and may include Nordoff and Robbins techniques; advanced piano and vocal techniques; analytical music therapy; and others.MTHY 623 Advanced Music Therapy Practicum I (3 credits)
This course offers advanced clinical experience in the students’ areas of specialization. Close individual and group supervision for students are provided. Case presentations, readings, discussion of ethical issues related to students’ work are integral to this course.MTHY 624 Advanced Music Therapy Practicum II (3 credits)
Prerequisite: MTHY 623.
This course provides further advanced clinical experience in students’ areas of specialization. Close individual and group supervision for students are provided. Case presentations, readings, discussion of ethical issues related to students’ work are integral to this course.MTHY 625 Guided Imagery and Music, Level I (3 credits)
This course introduces students to the Guided Imagery and Music method (GIM) through demonstrations, theoretical discussion and personal experiences. Specific topics covered include: the role of music in GIM, relaxation techniques, types of imagery and basic guiding techniques, and the implementation of GIM in assessment. This course is graded on a Pass/Fail basis.MTHY 693 Research in Music Therapy: Qualitative and Quantitative Methods (3 credits)
This course is designed to foster the acquisition of knowledge and methodological tools in qualitative and quantitative methods relevant to the field of Music Therapy. Particular emphasis is placed on acquisition of the practical tools necessary to conduct reliable and valid research to prepare students for the development of future research papers/projects in Music Therapy.MTHY 699 Thesis (15 credits)
Prerequisite: CATS 691 and MTHY 693.
The thesis topic is chosen in consultation with the thesis supervisor, and is approved by the thesis advisory committee. Students conduct an inquiry, produce the thesis, and present it orally to their thesis advisory committee. Guidelines for the thesis are described in Thesis Preparation and Thesis Examination Regulations available from the School of Graduate Studies and the Research Handbook of the Creative Arts Therapies Department.Graduate Diploma in Music Therapy CoursesMTHY 501 Music Therapy Skills (3 credits)
This course introduces students to basic materials, methods, and skills used to engage people in music therapy. These include improvisation, performance, leadership, group management, and appropriate repertoire/materials development for various ages and populations. Participation in varied experiences include, but are not limited to, vocal and instrumental improvisation, drumming circles, movement, melodic instruments, assistive technology, integrated arts, and songwritingMTHY 502 Psychology of Music (2 credits)
This course provides an introduction to phenomena involving music and human behaviour, including physical, acoustical, perceptual, psychological, neuropsychological, and pedagogical aspects.MTHY 503 Music Therapy with Adults (1 credit)
This course provides in depth coverage of music therapy clinical practice with diverse adult populations. This includes assessment techniques, intervention methods and strategies, improvisation, counselling skills, and an overview of the various populations.MTHY 504 Music Therapy with Children and Adolescents (1 credit)
This course provides in depth coverage of music therapy clinical practice with diverse child and adolescent populations. This includes assessment techniques, intervention methods and strategies, improvisation, and an overview of the various populations.MTHY 510 Music Therapy Practicum I (3 credits)
Co-requisite: MTHY 503.
This practicum course with adults is one in a series of practica that cumulatively fulfills the requirements of the 200-hour preclinical and the 1,000-hour supervised clinical internship requirements, as stipulated by the professional program approval associations (the Canadian Association for Music Therapy and the American Music Therapy Association). Students develop as professional music therapists within a social, political and cultural context. Students acquire skills in the implementation of the principles and practices of music therapy within adult populations, including observation and assessment procedures, treatment planning, evaluation, and reporting in multi-disciplinary team settings. Students have the opportunity to explore, develop, and integrate academic and practical knowledge and skills within a clinical setting. A minimum of 300 practicum hours is required.MTHY 511 Music Therapy Practicum II (3 credits)
Co-requisite: MTHY 504.
This practicum course within children and adolescent populations is one in a series of practica that cumulatively fulfills the requirements of the 200-hour pre-clinical and the 1,000-hour supervised clinical internship requirements, as stipulated by the professional program approval associations (the Canadian Association for Music Therapy and the American Music Therapy Association). Students develop as professional music therapists within a social, political and cultural context. Students acquire skills in the implementation of the principles and practices of music therapy within child and adolescent populations, including observation and assessment procedures, treatment planning, evaluation, and reporting in multi-disciplinary team settings. Students have the opportunity to explore, develop, and integrate academic and practical knowledge and skills within a clinical setting. A minimum of 300 practicum hours is required.MTHY 512 Music Therapy Practicum III (9 credits)
Prerequisites: MTHY 510 and MTHY 511.
This practicum course with diverse populations is the final in a series of practica that cumulatively fulfills the requirements of the 200-hour preclinical and the 1,000-hour supervised clinical internship requirements, as stipulated by the professional program approval associations (the Canadian Association for Music Therapy and the American Music Therapy Association). Students develop as professional music therapists within a social, political and cultural context. With a greater focus on clinical work in this practicum, students have the opportunity to specialize in a clinical population of their choice, preparing for future careers and/or graduate studies in music therapy. A minimum of 600 practicum hours is required. Students are also required to attend classes which may be offered as weekend intensives.MTHY 521 Clinical Improvisation in Music Therapy (3 credits)
This course explores the basic applications of clinical improvisation processes in therapy and assessment. The specific focus is determined by identified student strengths and needs, and may include Nordoff and Robbins techniques, advanced piano techniques, analytical music therapy, and others.Top© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
Creative Arts TherapiesPrograms
Master of/Magisteriate in Creative Arts Therapies (Art Therapy Option)
Master of/Magisteriate in Creative Arts Therapies (Drama Therapy Option)
Master of/Magisteriate in Arts in Creative Arts Therapies (Music Therapy Option)
Graduate Diploma in Music TherapyCreative Arts Therapies CoursesDepartment of Creative Arts Therapies WebsiteConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424