http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/research/centres.htmlFine Arts has four affilated research centres. Learn more about the centres and how they relate to the Faculty, then visit each centre's website for more information. The Centre for the Arts in Human Development (CAHD) is an educational, clinical and research centre serving adults with developmental disabilities and other special needs populations. The Centre provides four types of creative arts therapies: art, drama, music and dance/movement, used to promote autonomy and self-confidence, improve social skills and enhance overall quality of life for the Centre’s participants. The Gail and Stephen A. Jarislowsky Institute for Studies in Canadian Art seeks to foster a greater appreciation for Canadian visual culture of all eras. Established through the generous financial support of Gail and Stephen A. Jarislowsky, the Institute maintains a dialogue within the academic and museum communities on the evolving nature of Canadian visual arts study and supports research on Canadian art. The Technoculture, Art and Games (TAG) research centre is an interdisciplinary collaboration platform for research/creation in game studies and design, digital culture and interactive art. TAG brings together scholars, artists, designers, engineers and students from across faculties and disciplines. Participants are from a variety of universities, the game development industry and community based groups. Hexagram is an international network dedicated to research-creation in the fields of media arts, design, technology and digital culture. The network includes researchers from sociology, art history, anthropology, game studies, philosophy and communication/media studies, in addition to artists and designers.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityResearch centresFaculty of Fine Arts
            
                Faculty of Fine Arts
            Gail and Stephen A. Jarislowsky Institute for Studies 
in Canadian ArtTechnoculture, Art and Games (TAG)Hexagram-ConcordiaCentre for the Arts in Human DevelopmentConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/research/centres.htmlFind out more about the fascinating work being done at JMSB's research centres.

The mission of the Centre for Multidisciplinary Behavioural Business Research (CMBBR) is to advance the knowledge of behavioural issues in businesses and organizations. 

The Centre for Small Business and Entrepreneurial Studies (CSBES) was established in 1984 to develop courses and training programs, to sponsor and promote research on the needs of entrepreurs and small businesses, and to support Montreal-area entrepreneurs, small businesses, NGOs and entrepreneurial and small business associations.

The CN Centre for Studies in Sustainable Supply Chain Management provides an effective and mutually beneficial applied teaching and research platform where JMSB and CN will collaborate on designing, executing and bringing to fruition sustainable supply chain management based projects that have academic and business merit.

The CPA Research Centre in Accountability provides support and funding for primarily research, and teaching initiatives at the department of Accountancy at JMSB. The CPA Research Centre encourages research in a number of areas, including organizational performance, business ethics, management accounting, sustainability and information technology. 

The David O’Brien Centre for Sustainable Enterprise (DOCSE) focuses its efforts on guiding organizations toward holistic sustainable strategies that are rooted in innovation and enterprise development.

The Desjardins Centre for Innovation in Business Finance is funded by a generous endowment from the Desjardins Group. The Centre’s research will focus on innovation in business finance and on advances in the financial services sector, with specific reference to the effects on small to medium-sized business customers. 

The Institute for Community Entrepreneurship and Development undertakes research, but is also a centre for training for social and economic development in Aboriginal, Black, ethnic and immigrant communities.

The Institute for Governance of Private and Public Organizations was founded as a joint initiative of Concordia’s John Molson School of Business and HEC Montréal with the goal of raising the overall quality of governance. This is done through research, training, policy papers and knowledge dissemination.

The Interneg Research Centre is a collaborative research initiative in e-negotiations, supported by Science and Engineering Research Canada, and the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, Germany.

The ultimate goal of the Luc Beauregard Centre of Excellence in Communications Research is to strengthen exchanges between industry and academia, better understand the role of communications in business and propel excellence in doctoral studies.The National Bank Initiative in Entrepreneurship and Family Business is funded by a generous endowment from the National Bank. The Initiative’s purpose is to promote research projects in the field of entrepreneurship and family business, and to support undergraduate and students with an interest in entrepreneurship and family business.The Bob and Raye Briscoe Centre in Business Ownership Studies supports teaching and research in the area of business ownership and entrepreneurship at the John Molson School of Business. The Laboratory for Sensory Research is located at the John Molson School of Business and funded by the Canadian Foundation for Innovation (CFI).© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityResearch centres & laboratoriesJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessLaboratoriesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/research/centres.htmlThe Faculty of Arts and Science is recognized for the innovative quality of its individual and team research, interdisciplinary collaboration, experimentation, critical-making and creative thinking. Learn more about the internationally renowned research centres, labs, and studios where our researchers mobilize local communities, influence national issues and engage in global thinking. © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityResearch CentresFaculty of Arts and Science
            
                Faculty of Arts and Science
            Faculty research centresUniversity-recognized FAS research centresConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/encs/research/centres.htmlThe following centres are affiliated with Concordia's Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science.Pattern recognition and machine intelligence (PARMI) has been a very active field in the past 20 years, particularly in the application area. PARMI techniques have been used to recognize characters, time-varying signals, voice, satellite pictures, objects, fingerprints, and weather patterns, in many scientific, business, and military applications.Visit the Concordia Centre for Pattern Recognition and Machine Intelligence.CONCOM has carried out research projects in composites since its establishment in 1979. The interest of researchers at the CONCOM center covers many areas: polymer composites, nanocomposites, polymer/metalic alloy, design of composite structures, testing of materials structures and properties, and development of new materials and manufacturing techniques.Visit Concordia Centre for Composites.The Centre for Zero Energy Building Studies (CZEBS) is a university-recognized research unit.  The Mission of the CZEBS is to reduce the environmental impact of buildings while enhancing their safety and comfort by advancing knowledge through research and the building engineering discipline in Canada, by enriching the learning and research experience of students, and by assisting industry in implementing research results and innovations.Visit Centre for Zero Energy Building Studies.The Concordia Institute for Water, Energy and Sustainable Systems (CIWESS) trains students to be at the forefront of sustainable development practices. It promotes research into new systems, technologies and solutions for water, energy and resource conservation. While the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science is the home base of the Institute, under Director Catherine Mulligan, the Institute's activities will eventually include all of Concordia's four faculties and will also provide opportunities for collaborations with industry and communities.Visit Concordia Institute for Water, Energy and Sustainable Systems.© Concordia UniversityAbout the Faculty
Academics
Research
Facilities & services
 Student life
 News & events
 ContactConcordia UniversityResearch centresFaculty of Engineering & Computer Science
            
                Faculty of Engineering & Computer ScienceCentre for Pattern Recognition and Machine IntelligenceConcordia Centre for CompositesCentre for Zero Energy Building StudiesConcordia Institute for Water, Energy and Sustainable SystemsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424