http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/chemistry-msc.htmlIn today’s complex and ever-changing world, chemical sciences are fundamental in shaping the future, impacting every aspect of society from health, the environment, to how we live. This program prepares you for this influential field of study by providing occasions to work with internationally renowned faculty. Your research and learning objectives will be supported in multiple ways including access to specialized research centres and state-of-the-art instrumentation.With research options in chemistry and biochemistry, take advantage of the department’s knowledge in areas of growing significance, including:You can also experience the immediate impact of your research by embarking on a Co-op MSc program, in which research is conducted for an employer while directing your work towards a thesis project.Master’s students who wish to continue their academic training may transfer to the PhD program, upon the approval of the Graduate Studies Committee.Requirements for the DegreeAdmission Requirements. The admission requirement is an honours or specialization degree in chemistry or biochemistry or its equivalent. Comparable qualifications in related areas such as biology or physics may also be acceptable. Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be required to take up to two such courses in addition to their regular graduate program. Applicants with deficiencies in their undergraduate preparation may be required to take a qualifying program. This does not apply to International Students.Candidates for the master’s degree may register on either a full-time or a part-time basis. It is also possible to carry out MSc studies on a CO-OP basis with the collaboration of an employer. CO-OP MSc graduate studies are arranged as a form of a full-time or part-time program where the student conducts research of interest to the employer, normally in the employer’s laboratory, but directs the project toward a thesis topic acceptable to the department at Concordia and under the guidance of an academic supervisor in the department. The student will spend one term, normally with the support of an employer, gaining experience teaching in undergraduate laboratories and participating actively in the departmental seminars. This program will be available in areas of chemistry and biochemistry where the department has the resources to provide a suitable academic co-supervisor. It is a condition of the program that the employers agree to the publication of thesis results. Prospective applicants should contact the Department for further details.Applicants must prepare an original statement of purpose that reflects your academic objectives. This brief (maximum one page) statement of purpose should:Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures.Your completed application will include:Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Consult the graduate calendar for a list of courses and our department site for current courses offered.We are committed to providing students the support they need to focus on their studies. Top students benefit from scholarships, and all students are eligible for research and teaching assistantships together with conference awards and other funding.Salary support in the form of research and teaching stipends starts at a minimum of $17,500 per annum for all full-time graduate students (excluding Co-op students). Exceptional applicants may, upon entry to the program, be awarded a supplementary Arts and Science Fellowship of $5,000/year for two years.Please also consult the Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry’s funding page and Financial Aid and Awards.The department is housed in a custom-designed facility equipped with state-of the-art laboratories and research centres, groups or platforms. These facilities include:Many of these facilities are shared with Concordia’s other ground-breaking science departments: biology, physics, psychology and exercise science. The proximity of researchers working in various disciplines helps foster innovative and productive collaborations.See what our students are working on. Review an inspiring list of thesis topics.Concordia has a long-standing tradition of preparing Master’s students for careers demanding a broad spectrum of research and technical skills. The program is designed to advance analytical and experimental knowledge in chemistry or biochemistry through a combination of specialized courses, seminars and a supervised original research project culminating in a thesis. In addition to departmental course offerings, students can take advantage of crossover teaching with other science departments, and workshops offered through GradProSkills to hone their soft skills.Email: gpa.chem@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 3356Location: 
 7141 Sherbrooke Street West, SP 201-5
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H4B 1R6Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityChemistry (MSc)Degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application process
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Funding
                
            
                
					
                    Facilities
                
            
                
					
                    Emerging ideas – student projects
                
            
                
					
                    Your professional future
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a master's in chemistry?Related ProgramsMaster of Science (MSc)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424