http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/chemistry-phd.htmlThe Doctor of Philosophy in Chemistry (PhD), with research option in chemistry or biochemistry, is the Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry's highest degree program. The program provides students with an opportunity to obtain the greatest possible expertise in their chosen area of specialization. Graduates are talented, well-trained researchers. They are valued as employees in the private and public sectors, as well as in institutions of higher learning. Requirements for the DegreeAdmission Requirements. The normal requirement for admission is a Master of Science degree in Chemistry with high standing from a recognized university. Comparable qualifications in biology or biochemistry are also acceptable for applicants wishing to do graduate studies in biochemistry. Upon recommendation by full-time members of the faculty of the Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, students enrolled in the Master of Science (Chemistry) program at Concordia University who have completed a minimum of 6 credits of graduate level course work and who have shown themselves to be outstanding through performance in research may apply for permission to proceed directly to doctoral studies without submitting a master’s thesis (fast-tracking). Outstanding students who have maintained a grade point average of greater than 3.50 in their last two years of study and those with external scholarships (NSERC, CIHR, FQRNT) may also apply to the PhD program directly (fast-tracking) from their BSc program.Your completed application will include:Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Students select a research supervisor in their area of interest. Their program will be directed by a supervisory committee of three faculty members including the research supervisor.All students must complete a body of original research, write a thesis and successfully defend it in a public oral presentation to the examining committee (CHEM 855 Doctoral Research and Thesis, 69 credits). The PhD thesis must contain original publishable work of significance in advancing knowledge in the area of research undertaken.PhD students who already hold a MSc degree are required to complete 6 credits of graduate-level courses in addition to CHEM 667 (Student Literature Seminar, 3 credits), CHEM 668 (Student Research Seminar, 3 credits) and CHEM 896 (Research Proposal and Comprehensive Examination, 9 credits). The research proposal and comprehensive exam must be completed within 18 months of admission into the PhD program.Sample courses include:See all classes & read course descriptions in the Graduate CalendarSee course details that are specific to the calendar-year
PhD students conduct research of interest to an employer, normally in the employer's laboratory, but direct the project toward a thesis topic acceptable to the Department at Concordia. The studies are carried out under the general guidance of an academic supervisor in the Department. Co-op students will spend one term in full-time residence on campus, during which time they will normally receive financial support from the employer. While on campus, students will gain experience as teaching assistants in undergraduate laboratories and will participate actively in departmental and graduate seminars. Co-op students must complete the course requirements for the PhD degree. This program is available in areas where the Department has the resources to provide a suitable academic co-supervisor. Students will normally have spent at least two years working with the same employer before embarking on a Co-op PhD program. It is a condition of the program that the employer agrees to the publication of thesis results.
Learn moreFor PhD program information, see the Graduate Calendar.Courses offered are on class schedules.Students are advised not to register for more than one course (3 credits) per term. PhD students must discuss with their supervisor what course(s) to take prior to registration. Course selection must be approved by the Graduate Program Director. Students must also consult with the Graduate Program Director if they want to drop a course.Graduate registration forms are available online and in the Graduate Program Assistant's office, SP 201.05.Please be sure to complete the registration form in full: Name, ID number, status, term, level of study, courses, signature and date.The registration form must be signed by the Graduate Program Director and then taken to the Graduate Program Assistant who will remove the advising block. This will enable you to register for course(s).Salary support in the form of research and teaching stipends starts at a minimum of $17,500 per annum for all full-time graduate students (excluding Co-op students) in a department program. This support is guaranteed for the normal period needed to complete the Ph.D. degree dependent on satisfactory performance.”Fellowships, scholarships and awardsTuition fees are set by the government of Quebec. Additional fees are charged by the University. Up to date fee information may be obtained here. Note that the fee structure differs depending on whether and where you are a permanent resident.Concordia has a long-standing tradition of preparing PhD students for careers demanding a broad spectrum of research and technical skills. The program is designed to advance analytical and experimental knowledge in chemistry or biochemistry through a combination of specialized courses, seminars and an independent, supervised research project culminating in a dissertation. In addition to departmental course offerings, students can take advantage of crossover teaching with other science departments, and workshops offered through GradProSkills (link to http://graduatestudies.concordia.ca/gradproskills/) to hone their soft skills.

The Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry provides a collegial environment conducive to learning and has an enviable academic reputation based on the strengths of its faculty members and research facilities. Students are instructed and supervised by faculty members with solid international reputations in areas of growing significance, including analytical, organic, inorganic, physical, computational, and geological chemistry, genomics, proteomics, protein structure and function, and cell and molecular biology, and topics at the interface between chemistry and biochemistry. Research produced within the department is well represented in leading academic journals.

The department is housed in a modern, custom-designed facility equipped with state-of the-art laboratories and research centres or platforms. These include:Other facilities accessible to researchers include nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and laser spectroscopy laboratories.Many of these centres and platforms accommodate faculty and students from Concordia’s other ground-breaking science departments: biology, physics, psychology and exercise science. The proximity of researchers working in various disciplines helps foster innovative collaborations and significant breakthroughs.Email: gpa.chem@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 3356Location: 
 7141 Sherbrooke Street West, SP 201-5
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H4B 1R6Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityChemistry (PhD)Degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application process
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Degree options
                
            
                
					
                    Registration
                
            
                
					
                    Funding and fees
                
            
                
					
                    Why do your doctorate at Concordia?
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a doctorate in chemistry?Related ProgramsDoctorate (PhD)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Research workCourse workPhD RegistrationRegistration ProceduresFundingFees