http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/communication-studies-diploma.htmlStudents experience an intensive introduction to the field of communications for one year, full-time. Because no previous academic training or experience is required - just a Bachelor’s degree in a field other than communication - it is perfect for those seeking a career change or upgrading qualifications. The Graduate Diploma is an interdisciplinary gathering of students from diverse professional backgrounds, offering film, video, intermedia, and sound production, as well as communications and media theory courses. A 3-credit Internship option is available for students finding their own work placement.Requirements for the DiplomaAdmission Requirements. Entry into the program is based on a careful assessment of the individual backgrounds and goals of applicants who possess a bachelor’s degree (or equivalent) with high standing from a recognized institution in a field other than communication. Applicants are required to submit a letter of intent of no more than 600 words outlining their background, academic and work experience, and career goals. Applicants whose prior degrees are not from an English or French-speaking university are required to submit TOEFL scores. The minimum TOEFL iBT score required is 106 (or 623 for TOEFL PBT).Your completed application will include:Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures.All applications must be submitted to the Graduate Admissions Application Centre.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.CoursesAll courses are 3-credit, one-term courses unless otherwise stated.Core Courses (Group A)COMS 505 Introduction to Communication Theory and History
This seminar offers an introduction to communication theory, by situating media theories and technology in their historical and cultural contexts. Through lectures, discussions, and selected readings from the works of key theorists, this course explores and evaluates major historical and contemporary approaches to communication theories.COMS 506 In the Field: Methods in Communication Studies and Practice
Prerequisite: COMS 505.
This course offers an introduction to communication research methods and provides an interdisciplinary approach to the interaction of media, technology, culture, and society.COMS 510 Graduate Diploma Seminar
 This full-year course meets bi-weekly to introduce students to the following topics: communication organizations and their public identities, internships and professional development opportunities, emerging trends in communications research methods and practice. Representatives from industry and faculty are invited to discuss their work and future trends in media studies and practice. This course is graded on a pass/fail basis.COMS 562 Media Production: Sound
This course is designed to provide the student with a basic working knowledge of audio systems, both natural and electronic, to understand the various affective and psychological qualities of sound, and how sound may be structured into imaginative aural form. Lectures and Laboratory: average 6 hours per week.COMS 569 Media Production: Moving Images
This course provides a foundation in the creative, critical and technical aspects of moving images, including an introduction to non-linear editing software.
Note: Students who have received credit for COMS 567 (Television) or COMS 568 (Film) may not take this course for credit.COMS 570 Media Production: Intermedia
This course provides an introduction to new and developing digital technologies (primarily computer-based media) through historical, theoretical, and critical perspectives on media, culture, and society and includes basic concepts in software operating systems, communication design and digital media creation. Lectures and Laboratory: average 6 hours per week.For a listing of elective courses please see the Graduate Calendar.The Department of Communication Studies, founded in 1965, was the first of its kind in Canada. Today, more than 45 years later, the department remains a leader in the field. In addition to the Diploma in Communication Studies, the Department offers two other highly sought-after graduate programs: the M.A. in Media Studies and the Joint PhD in Communication.Department graduate programs are known across the continent for their innovative and rigorous tradition of teaching, scholarship and research-creation. The programs examine the social, political, economic, historical and cultural dimensions of communications and media in contemporary societies. They attract students and faculty from across the country and around the world.Central to the department’s scholarly activities is the integration of knowledge based in the humanities, liberal arts, social sciences and fine arts. Graduate programs explore a diverse range of approaches to media analysis, critique and media creation and are unique in their range of integrative program offerings.The department’s interdisciplinary faculty are known nationally and internationally for their scholarship. They regularly garner significant grants and fellowships for their contributions to the fields of communications, media studies, media arts, cultural studies and design art. They are also gaining acclaim for groundbreaking research situated at the crossroads of fine arts, science and the humanities.Topics of graduate student research and completed theses include:Graduates in media and communication studies have gained respect as scholars, researchers and artists and become leaders in media and cultural industries. Many have assumed public and private sectors positions in Canada and academic positions in North America and Europe.Current Research areas include: Email: Mircea.Mandache@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 5283Location: 
 7141 Sherbrooke Street West, CJ 3.245
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H4B 1R6Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityCommunication Studies (GrDip)Degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application process
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Why study at Concordia?
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty research interests
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a graduate diploma in Communication Studies?Related ProgramsGraduate Diploma (GrDip)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424