http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/community-economic-development.htmlThe need to develop effective social policies, programs and communities with the power to confront complex challenges has never been more urgent. As we continue to witness large-scale climate change, as well as political and economic crises worldwide, we require scholars and community sector professionals to reflect on how they can contribute to progressive change and lead projects that inspire civic engagement.The Graduate Diploma in Community Economic Development provides you with an environment to investigate Quebec and Canada’s social and solidarity economy in a broader context. Our faculty members are actively involved in the community and social economy sector, allowing you to benefit from their scholarship and practical knowledge as you explore the evolution of community economic development, community organizing and different theories of economic change. In today’s context this includes the new and growing interest in social innovation as it generates uncharted paths for community based social and economic transformation.Our diverse student body is comprised of community sector professionals and students with volunteer experience in a variety of organizations. Many courses in our curriculum are participatory and enriched by the collective experiences of our cohort.  Montreal’s own history of community-based activism and economic development will serve as a backdrop as you participate in a field project with a community organization.Requirements for the DiplomaTo obtain the Graduate Diploma in CED, students will have to obtain a minimum of 30 course credits and a minimum GPA of 2.70. Courses offered by the program are divided between required core courses, open sessions, a project, as well as elective courses. A typical progression through the program takes one year (three semesters):* Students may take either two courses (Part I and Part II) in a single area of concentration, or one course (Part I) in two areas of concentration, subject to available resources. (All Part II courses require successful completion of Part I in the same area of concentration).To remain in good academic standing, students have to maintain a minimum GPA of 2.70.Admission Requirements. To be admitted into the program, applicants will generally be expected to have completed an undergraduate degree with a GPA of 2.70 and must be able to read, write, and express themselves in either English or French.Each applicant’s background, practical experience and learning goals will be fully considered. Applicants are required to submit a two-to-four page personal statement in which they outline their particular field(s) of interest, their strengths and weaknesses, what they expect or hope from their studies, how these expectations tie into their personal or professional goals, and what they expect to contribute to a better understanding of CED.The Graduate Diploma Program in CED will comply with all other admission criteria established by the School of Graduate Studies.Your completed application will include:Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Core courses (3 credits) include:Specialisation courses (3 credits) are offered as well (decided by the student cohort). The following courses have been offered in the past:Open session courses (1 credit) offered in the past have includedCourses are dynamic, and include a variety of teaching methods: site visits, guest speakers, workshops, films, discussion of texts, group work, etc.Consult the graduate calendar for a complete list of courses and learn more about the program and our approach. We are committed to providing you the support you need to focus on your studies. A limited number of scholarships are available for students based on financial need, ranging from $1,000-$5,000.Please also consult Concordia’s graduate funding page and Financial Aid and Awards.You will dedicate between 80 to 120 hours to a field project that addresses an aspect of community development. This field project can be based within your present work, new paid work or in a new or current volunteer context.The project is an opportunity for you to address a specific challenge you are passionate about and which is also seen as important by the collaborating organization. You are responsible for defining, finding and negotiating your field project, with the support and assistance of our program. You will critically analyze your project and submit a written report that summarizes and evaluates your experience.Examples of recent past field projects include students collaborating with groups on issues related to immigration, housing, urban agriculture, youth etc. Students are responsible for negotiating the tasks within the field placement with the organization based on organizational needs and student learning interests. Running a conference, providing training, facilitating workshops, supporting inter-organizational collaborations, doing research are examples of tasks that students have taken on as part of their field placement.The Graduate Diploma in Community Economic Development is structured to enable practitioners to continue work while studying.A Graduate Diploma in Community Economic Development prepares you for careers in various community organizations, including anti-poverty, urban and housing development, women’s rights, and immigration. Many of our alumni have started their own social enterprises, like alternative daycares, laundromats, consumer cooperatives, cafés, as well as the importation and sale of equitable fruits to major distributors. Other career opportunities are available in government and local community economic development agencies, health clinics, education, and unions.Meet some of our alumniThe Graduate Diploma in CED is offered in English beginning in the Fall of even-numbered years and in French beginning in the Fall of odd-numbered years. The coming year's program (2017-18) will be offered in English.Email: Perry.Calce@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2579Location: 
 2149 MacKay
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 2J2Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityCommunity Economic Development (GrDip)Why pursue a graduate diploma in Community Economic Development?Key resourcesDegree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application process
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Funding
                
            
                
					
                    Field project
                
            
                
					
                    Program Structure
                
            
                
					
                    Your professional future
                
            Contact usProgram DetailsRelated ProgramsGraduate Diploma (GrDip)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424