http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/communication-phd.html
The Joint PhD in Communication is a highly dynamic and bilingual interuniversity degree program. Introduced in 1987 by Concordia University in collaboration with the Université de Montréal and the Université du Québec à Montréal, it remains the only Doctoral degree of its kind in Canada, combining the talents of professors, students and staff at all three institutions. Courses are cross-listed so that students enrolled at one of the participating universities take courses at the other two.The bilingual nature of the program is one of its greatest strengths. The Joint PhD program serves as a meeting place for communication scholarship from diverse research traditions in North American and European cultures. Students, like faculty members, come from a variety of disciplines and perspectives. This makes the program one of the leading destinations for communications studies in Canada.The Joint PhD program focuses on the forms and formats of communication technologies, the meaning-making aspects of communications and issues of power and politics, as well as the emancipatory potential of communications for various constituents and communities.Students choose courses from within six topical domains:The Department of Communication Studies in the Faculty of Arts and Science was founded in 1965. It was a Canadian first and today, more than 45 years later, remains a leader in its field. In addition to the Doctor of Philosophy in Communication, it offers two other highly innovative graduate programs: a Master of Arts in Media Studies and a Diploma in Communication Studies.These programs have a strong and rigorous tradition of teaching, scholarship and research-creation. They examine the social, political, economic, historical and cultural dimensions of communications and media in contemporary societies. They attract students and faculty from across the country and around the world.Central to the department’s scholarly activities is the integration of knowledge based in the humanities, liberal arts, social sciences and fine arts. Graduate programs are unique in their range of integrative program offerings.The department’s interdisciplinary faculty are known nationally and internationally for their scholarship. They regularly garner prestigious awards, grants and fellowships for their contributions to the fields of communications, media studies, media arts, cultural studies and design art. They are also gaining acclaim for groundbreaking studies situated at the crossroads of the social sciences and the humanities. Graduates of the department have gained respect as scholars, researchers and artists and become leaders in media and cultural industries. Many have assumed public and private sectors positions in Canada and academic positions in North America and Europe.Your completed application will include:Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures. All applications must be submitted to the Graduate Admissions Application Centre.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Topics of faculty & graduate student research include:Email: Mircea.Mandache@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 5283Location: 
 7141 Sherbrooke Street West, CJ 3.245
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H4B 1R6Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityCommunication (PhD)Why do your doctorate at Concordia?
                
            
                
					
                    Application process
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty research interests
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a doctorate in communication?Program DetailsRelated ProgramsDoctorate (PhD)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424