http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/students/exchanges/field-schools/Concordia_Theatre_Students_in_Germany.htmlIn collaboration with Concordia International, the Faculty of Fine Arts and the Department of Theatre are pleased to offer Concordia Theatre students the exceptional opportunity to participate in a summer exchange program in Erlangen, Germany. This exciting program provides undergraduate Theatre students the opportunity to participate in a collaborative creative project while earning 12 Concordia credits towards their degree.  Classes in Erlangen will begin approximately on April 15 2017, and last until July 16 2017. The program consists of 12 credits of coursework (courses taught in English)There is also a non-credited German Language course offered free of charge.Concordia will charge program participants for 15 credits of undergraduate tuition.  Upon completion of the program, students will be refunded for 3 credits of tuition.  This refund will be applied to the student’s Concordia student account.Students are responsible for paying for and selecting their transportation to/from Erlangen, Germany; health and travel insurance; the cost of accomodations (approximately 250-350 € a month);  meals; spending money; a Student Service Fee (currently 42 €) and other associated costs. The University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, founded in 1743, has a rich history. It is a strong research university with an international perspective. It is also one of the largest universities in Germany, with approximately 38,000 students and 242 degree programmes. The Department of Theatre and Media Studies, founded in 1996, applies an interdisciplinary and comparative approach to teaching and research with a strong focus on the aesthetics, history and theory of the performing arts and visual media.  Areas of specialization include 20th Century European Theatre and Culture, Contemporary Theatre and Performance Art, Applied Theatre, Theatre Therapy and Pedagogy.The City of Erlangen is situated in the South of Germany in Bavaria. Erlangen is located a 15-minute train ride away from Nürnberg (the second biggest city in Bavaria). Munich can be reached by train within 2 hours.  Erlangen is a student-friendly city - many of its 105,000 inhabitants are current students.  It is notable for its baroque architecture and is described both as “bustling” and “cozy.”Students accepted to the program will have housing reserved for them on-campus at the University of Erlangen-Nuremberg.  Students are responsible for all charges related to their accommodation.A $3000 CAD bursary is available to eligible students participating in the program.To be eligible for the bursary, students must meet ALL of the following requirements:Preference will be given to students who have a minimum 3.00 cumulative GPA, are registered in undergraduate Concordia degree programs in the Faculty of Fine Arts, Theatre Department and who have at least 21 credits to complete before graduation.  Students are encouraged to apply a second time to the program should they not be admitted in the initial year of application.  A slight preference is given to students who are advanced in their degree program. Attend an information session on Wednesday October 19 from 13:30-14:00 in MB 7.401/13:30-14:30 in MB 7.270How to ApplySubmit online a complete Concordia Field School Abroad Application; arrange to have one Academic Reference sent to Concordia International (instructions on form); obtain permission from the Faculty of Fine Arts, Student Academic Services AND submit a Concordia Field School Abroad Bursary Application. The application deadline is October 31, 2016.  © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityConcordia Theatre Students in GermanyStudent hub
            
                Student hub2017 Summer ProgramProgram dates and coursesEstimated costsHost InstitutionAccommodationsBursaryEligibilityPlease note:Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424