http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/cinema/programs/film-studies/film-studies-ma/courses.htmlMA Course Descriptions 2016-2017Note: 600-level indicates MA, 800-level indicates PhD. Several courses are offered to both MA and PhD students. FMST 600 A /3 (Fall-Winter) Mondays, 13H15 - 17H15Location: FB-250Methods In Film StudiesInstructors: Catherine Russell (Fall) and Marc Steinberg (Winter)This is a mandatory course in the Film Studies MA Program. It is designed to help students develop research, writing and presentation skills appropriate to the discipline of film studies. In addition to technical and practical matters, the course helps students develop productive and original research questions by examining notable issues in the field. Course materials examine the ways that film history, criticism, and textual analysis have been and can be written, encompassing a range of ways of seeing, interpreting and understanding cinema and the moving image. Written and oral assignments are designed to develop research and communication skills appropriate to the field. The course also works to facilitate an esprit de corps within the M.A. class. The first term, taught by Catherine Russell, will address issues of criticism, theory, film analysis, and approaches to cinema. The second term, taught by Marc Steinberg, will focus on the relationship between film and other media, their technologies and infrastructures.  Final grades will be calculated on the basis of all assignments and presentations in both semesters.  FMST 610/810 A  /2 (Fall)  Thursdays, 13H15-17H15Location: FB-250Topics in Québécois Cinema: ConfessionalityInstructor: Tom WaughThis seminar is on the historiography, theory and criticism of a specific genre in Québec cinema across its historical span, namely the first-person, autobiographical, self-portrait or diary film—in short, what we are calling the confessional film. It is a commonplace in Quebec film history and criticism that Xavier Dolan’s J’ai tué ma mère (I Killed My Mother, 2009) launched a new era in Québec cinema. Yet this film, directed, written and performed by the teenage wunderkind in an autobiographical mode, belonged to a decades-old tradition of Québécois filmmakers speaking in the first person. The first thrust of this genre during the Quiet Revolution in the 1960s and 70s coincided and engaged with the international historical phenomenon known as the Sexual Revolution. However confessional cinema also has addressed issues of ethno-culture, kinship, gender, language, ability and other matrices of identity. We shall explore this genre through textual analysis of representative films belonging to a range of modes, in their historico-cultural context and in the light of theoretical debates about identity and confession sparked by Michel Foucault and others. The seminar is based on the traditional Concordia pedagogical format of weekly screenings anchored in critical and theoretical readings, plus active online and in-class discussions. Though some documentaries and fiction in English are represented, our emphasis is of course on films in French, and detailed synopses and translations are provided in the rare instances where subtitled versions are not available. Weekly readings will be processed in Moodle forums, and each student will present a brief exposé on a syllabus film in class. The projected outcome of the seminar for each registrant will be a publishable research paper on a subject of her/his choice pertaining to the seminar corpus and approved by the instructor. FMST 620/820 AA  /4 (Winter) Tuesdays, 18H00-22H00Location: FB-250Topics in Non-European Cinemas: Global Indigenous Cinema and MediaInstructor: Ezra WintonThis seminar explores Indigenous cinema across a broad geographic and diverse cultural and formal spectrum. With an emphasis on Canada, Australia/New Zealand and Latin America, we will encounter and critically assess the cinematic expression of Indigenous filmmakers working in animation, fiction and documentary from disparate regions and histories. Keeping in mind the historical, political, economic, artistic, social, and screening contexts of Indigenous cinema, this course will examine both differentiating factors and common threads across this rich, robust and politically-charged body of work. As we encounter in-class screenings, engage in discussion, read related literature and give presentations, students should become familiar with Indigenous cinema from diverse and distinct origins, as well as the attendant key concepts of this seminar: fourth cinema, decolonization, sovereignty and self-representation, politics of refusal and remote avant-garde. FMST 625/825 AA  /4 (Winter) Wednesdays, 18H00-22H00Location: FB-250Topics in Film History: Chaplin: Comedy and Global ResponseInstructor: Maria CorriganThis course examines Charlie Chaplin’s role in the formation of cinema, as well as the astounding array of responses his comedy has elicited from artists, scholars, and politicians across the globe. We will see how the iconic figure of the Tramp is developed, reflected, and fractured into a multiplicity of roles in the different cultural contexts that embrace him. The course will begin with an examination of Chaplin in the silent era: we will watch his films from the 1910s in order to catch and analyze his growing universal appeal. Then, we will trace Chaplin’s reappearances in artistic movements across the world, from avant-garde circles in the 1920s, to philosophical discussions of the nature of cinema, to the coming of sound, and, finally, to the politics behind the “universality” of Chaplin’s appeal. It was no simple feat that Chaplin—a British immigrant from a vaudeville background—came to be thought of simultaneously as a pure symbol of America and of cinema itself. At the same time, the overall goal of any class focused on Chaplin is to laugh and to question why we laugh.  FMST 630/830 A  /4 (Winter) Tuesdays, 13H15-17H15Location: FB-250Topics in Film Theory: Classical Film TheoryInstructor: Martin LefebvreThis seminar focuses on some of the major figures of what is now referred to as "Classical Film Theory". The course is addressed to students interested in the history of film theory and the development of ideas about film from the silent period to the 1960s. The course centers on the writings of 5 important figures of Classical Film Theory:  Hugo Münsterberg, Sergei M. Eisenstein, Rudolf Arnheim, André Bazin and Siegfried Kracauer. Students are asked to read the works of these theorists, which are discussed in class. Lectures situate the different theories in their intellectual and philosophical context. Films and film excerpts are screened so as to contextualize and/or exemplify the work of each of the theorists considered. FMST 635/835 A  /4 (Winter) Wednesdays, 13H15-17H15Location: H-333Topics in Aesthetic/Cultural Theory: Piracy: Culture and PoliticsInstructor: Joshua NevesThis course examines multiple genealogies of the pirate and piracy as an ineluctable underside of capitalist modernity. It will focus on issues related to media piracy and intellectual property—from print culture to cinema and the Internet—and engage the broader social, economic, and political functions of piracy beyond media practices (mimicry, counterfeit, fakes, etc.). In its thrust, the course will move from discussions of primitive accumulation and the advent of copyright to contemporary discourses of free culture (rip/mix/burn), information feudalism, biopiracy, and pirate modernities. We will examine a range of key concepts, including: property, (il)legality, creativity and innovation, technology, governance and democracy, and the common. In addition to high-tech and Western contexts, the course will trace how the piratical shapes the production of legitimacy (and thus zones marked by illegitimacy and underdevelopment) across the Global South. FMST 640/840 AA /2 (Winter)  Tuesdays, 18H00-22H00Location: FB-250Women and Film: Women's Cinema 2.0Instructor: Rosanna MauleDigital platforms are important sources for the production and the promotion of films by women filmmakers, the consolidation of networks among women in the film industry, and the promotion of feminist and gender-specific discourse on film in the public sphere. This seminar offers a critical overview of women¹s cinema since the digital turn at a time when gender equity is too easily taken for granted and corporate media are consolidating dominant and conservative ideologies. The focus is on a vast range of social actors that adopt digital platforms as alternative circuits and channels to promote and circulate films directed by women, advance gender issues, and advocate feminist discourse and women¹s equal treatment and representation in film. Case studies include professional figures, companies, and organizations within the film industry, film scholars and critics, film spectators or fans, feminist activists and associations, and film festivals.The purpose of the course is to interrogate the status of women's cinema within a culture and a public sphere saturated with digital and social media. In underlining the social and cultural benefits of the digital economy for women within the context of global corporate media, the seminar also stresses the power relations embedded in Web-based activities and services. FMST 665/865 AA /2 (Fall) Mondays, 18h00–22H00Location: FB-250Topics in Film Studies:  Cinema Behind BarsInstructor: Kay DickinsonPrison populations continue to rise steeply; most dramatically, in the United States numbers of increased by 700% since the 1970s. Incarceration is not only an ever more widespread human experience, but also represents a crucial and troubled nexus between juridical, biopolitical, economic and human rights concerns. In this course we explore the long history of films set in and made within prisons; aimed at investigating the social implications and context of these films. The class looks at whether knowledge of the penal system helps in better understanding “prison films”. Political and theoretical writings on prisons and written by imprisoned persons help the class engage with a wide range of movies from around the world. FMST 665/865 A  /2 (Fall) Wednesdays 13H15-17H15Location: FB-250Topics in Film Studies: Curating with Communities: Negotiating Aesthetics and Politics in Film ProgrammingInstructor: Ezra WintonThis graduate seminar explores and analyzes the theoretical and practical implications of cinematic curatorial work that engages directly with communities. Keeping in mind the relationship between the values and goals of curators (and their attendant institutions) and those of interpretative and stakeholder communities, we explore curatorial practices and strategies across three distinct fields: film festivals, alternative film events and educational film initiatives. We use case studies of institutions, organizations, programs and films to interrogate the crucial role curators and programmers play as intermediaries between disparate groups and as cultural agents who not only give shape to culture but who forge communities around particular films and/or programming strategies. From members of diasporic constituencies to anarchist squatters to silent film fans, curating and community intersect as fascinating historical, political, social and cultural objects of study. Through course readings, student presentations and in-class screenings and discussions, we investigate this understudied aspect of film theory and practice. © Concordia UniversityMel Hoppenheim School of CinemaConcordia UniversityCoursesMel Hoppenheim School of Cinema
            
                Mel Hoppenheim School of Cinema
            Join the conversationConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/cinema/programs/film-studies/film-moving-image-phd/courses.htmlPhD Courses 2016 - 2017 Note: 600-level indicates MA, 800-level indicates PhD. Several courses are offered to both MA and PhD students. FMST 610/810 A  /2 (Fall) Thursdays, 13H15-17H15Location: FB-250Topics in Québécois Cinema: ConfessionalityInstructor: Tom WaughThis seminar is on the historiography, theory and criticism of a specific genre in Québec cinema across its historical span, namely the first-person, autobiographical, self-portrait or diary film—in short, what we are calling the confessional film. It is a commonplace in Quebec film history and criticism that Xavier Dolan’s J’ai tué ma mère (I Killed My Mother, 2009) launched a new era in Québec cinema. Yet this film, directed, written and performed by the teenage wunderkind in an autobiographical mode, belonged to a decades-old tradition of Québécois filmmakers speaking in the first person. The first thrust of this genre during the Quiet Revolution in the 1960s and 70s coincided and engaged with the international historical phenomenon known as the Sexual Revolution. However confessional cinema also has addressed issues of ethno-culture, kinship, gender, language, ability and other matrices of identity. We shall explore this genre through textual analysis of representative films belonging to a range of modes, in their historico-cultural context and in the light of theoretical debates about identity and confession sparked by Michel Foucault and others. The seminar is based on the traditional Concordia pedagogical format of weekly screenings anchored in critical and theoretical readings, plus active online and in-class discussions. Though some documentaries and fiction in English are represented, our emphasis is of course on films in French, and detailed synopses and translations are provided in the rare instances where subtitled versions are not available. Weekly readings will be processed in Moodle forums, and each student will present a brief exposé on a syllabus film in class. The projected outcome of the seminar for each registrant will be a publishable research paper on a subject of her/his choice pertaining to the seminar corpus and approved by the instructor. FMST 620/820 AA  /4 (Winter) Tuesdays, 18H00-22H00Location: FB-250Topics in Non-European Cinemas: Global Indigenous Cinema and MediaInstructor: Ezra WintonThis graduate seminar explores Indigenous cinema across a broad geographic and diverse cultural and formal spectrum. With an emphasis on Canada, Australia/New Zealand and Latin America, we will encounter and critically assess the cinematic expression of Indigenous filmmakers working in animation, fiction and documentary from disparate regions and histories. Keeping in mind the historical, political, economic, artistic, social, and screening contexts of Indigenous cinema, this course will examine both differentiating factors and common threads across this rich, robust and politically-charged body of work. As we encounter in-class screenings, engage in discussion, read related literature and give presentations, students should become familiar with Indigenous cinema from diverse and distinct origins, as well as the attendant key concepts of this seminar: fourth cinema, decolonization, sovereignty and self-representation, politics of refusal and remote avant-garde. FMST 625/825 AA  /4 (Winter) Wednesdays, 18H00-22H00Location: FB-250Topics in Film History: Chaplin: Comedy and Global ResponseInstructor: Maria CorriganThis course examines Charlie Chaplin’s role in the formation of cinema, as well as the astounding array of responses his comedy has elicited from artists, scholars, and politicians across the globe. We will see how the iconic figure of the Tramp is developed, reflected, and fractured into a multiplicity of roles in the different cultural contexts that embrace him. The course will begin with an examination of Chaplin in the silent era: we will watch his films from the 1910s in order to catch and analyze his growing universal appeal. Then, we will trace Chaplin’s reappearances in artistic movements across the world, from avant-garde circles in the 1920s, to philosophical discussions of the nature of cinema, to the coming of sound, and, finally, to the politics behind the “universality” of Chaplin’s appeal. It was no simple feat that Chaplin—a British immigrant from a vaudeville background—came to be thought of simultaneously as a pure symbol of America and of cinema itself. At the same time, the overall goal of any class focused on Chaplin is to laugh and to question why we laugh.  FMST 630/830 A  /4 (Winter) Tuesdays, 13H15-17H15Location: FB-250Topics in Film Theory: Classical Film TheoryInstructor: Martin LefebvreThis seminar focuses on some of the major figures of what is now referred to as "Classical Film Theory". The course is addressed to students interested in the history of film theory and the development of ideas about film from the silent period to the 1960s. The course centers on the writings of 5 important figures of Classical Film Theory:  Hugo Münsterberg, Sergei M. Eisenstein, Rudolf Arnheim, André Bazin and Siegfried Kracauer. Students are asked to read the works of these theorists, which are discussed in class. Lectures situate the different theories in their intellectual and philosophical context. Films and film excerpts are screened so as to contextualize and/or exemplify the work of each of the theorists considered. FMST 635/835 A  /4 (Winter) Wednesdays, 13H15-17H15Location: H-333Topics in Aesthetic/Cultural Theory: Piracy: Culture and PoliticsInstructors: Joshua NevesThis course examines multiple genealogies of the pirate and piracy as an ineluctable underside of capitalist modernity. It will focus on issues related to media piracy and intellectual property—from print culture to cinema and the Internet—and engage the broader social, economic, and political functions of piracy beyond media practices (mimicry, counterfeit, fakes, etc.). In its thrust, the course will move from discussions of primitive accumulation and the advent of copyright to contemporary discourses of free culture (rip/mix/burn), information feudalism, biopiracy, and pirate modernities. We will examine a range of key concepts, including: property, (il)legality, creativity and innovation, technology, governance and democracy, and the common. In addition to high-tech and Western contexts, the course will trace how the piratical shapes the production of legitimacy (and thus zones marked by illegitimacy and underdevelopment) across the Global South.  FMST 640/840 AA /2 (Fall) Tuesdays, 18H00 - 22H00Location: FB-250Women and Film: Women's Cinema 2.0Instructor: Rosanna MauleDigital platforms are important sources for the production and the promotion of films by women filmmakers, the consolidation of networks among women in the film industry, and the promotion of feminist and gender-specific discourse on film in the public sphere. This seminar offers a critical overview of women¹s cinema since the digital turn at a time when gender equity is too easily taken for granted and corporate media are consolidating dominant and conservative ideologies. The focus of this course is on a vast range of social actors that adopt digital platforms as alternative circuits and channels to promote and circulate films directed by women, advance gender issues, and advocate feminist discourse and women¹s equal treatment and representation in film. Case studies include professional figures, companies, and organizations within the film industry, film scholars and critics, film spectators or fans, feminist activists and associations, and film festivals. The purpose of the course is to interrogate the status of women¹s cinema within a culture and a public sphere saturated with digital and social media. In underlining the social and cultural benefits of the digital economy for women within the context of global corporate media, the seminar also stresses the power relations embedded in Web-based activities and services. FMST 665/865 AA /2 (Fall) Mondays, 18h00–22H00Location: FB-250Topics in Film Studies:  Cinema Behind BarsInstructor: Kay DickinsonPrison populations continue to rise steeply; most dramatically, in the United States numbers of increased by 700% since the 1970s. Incarceration is not only an ever more widespread human experience, but also represents a crucial and troubled nexus between juridical, biopolitical, economic and human rights concerns. In this course we explore the long history of films set in and made within prisons; aimed at investigating the social implications and context of these films. The class looks at whether knowledge of the penal system helps in better understanding “prison films”. Political and theoretical writings on prisons and written by imprisoned persons help the class engage with a wide range of movies from around the world. FMST 801 A / 4 (Winter) Tuesdays, 8H45-12H45 Location: FB-250Film and Moving Images History: Old Left/New LeftInstructor: Tom WaughThis seminar centers on a comparative exploration of the cultural, aesthetic and political dimensions of two historical waves of “progressive”/activist/left documentary work in Europe and North America associated respectively with the period of what we might call the Old Left (1917-1960) and the New Left (1965-1980). This seminar is screening-intensive, and connects the two corpuses with appropriate bodies of theoretical and critical writing as well as historical contexts.A selected case study is at the centre of each corpus, representing two areas of the instructor’s expertise: the oeuvre of the Dutch-French documentarist Joris Ivens (the subject of Waugh’s 2016 book); and the “Challenge for Change/Société nouvelle” program of the National Film Board of Canada, 1967-1980 (which will allow students to research work produced in the city they are studying in). These two case studies allow an in-depth textual and contextual study of specific corpuses by using samples of contemporaneous work, especially in students’ research projects. For example, there will be consideration respectively of the American collective producers “Frontier Films” (1937-42) and “Newreel” (1968+), or French makers from Renoir to Marker (both Ivens collaborators). FMST 804 A /2 (Fall) Wednesdays, 13H15-17H15Location: H-333Film and Moving Images Cultural Theory: Global TVInstructor: Joshua NevesThis course examines the emergence and transformation of television from wireless to the web. It focuses on TV as a set of cultural, economic, and political practices, paying close attention to the distinct conditions of emergence in different national and regional contexts. The course introduces canonical works in Anglophone TV studies as well as a wide range of transnational scholarship analyzing television networks and industries, audiences and consumption, genre and formats, race and sexuality, labor and piracy, transmedia and convergence, among other issues. It also explores problems posed by digital technologies and the rise of the Internet as a mass medium—signaling both alternative TV policies and protocols, and key areas for new research. FMST 806 A /2 (Fall)  Thursdays, 13H15-17H15Location: H-333PROSEMINAR I: Media Matters: Material Cultures of the Moving ImageInstructor: Marc SteinbergExiting the linguistic turn, we have now moved fully into the materialistic turn. Material culture studies, thing theory and materialisms of different varieties have gained momentum over the past two decades. In studies of consumer cultures there has been a return to questions of the object and material culture; in philosophy and critical theory, debates around Thing theory, Object-Oriented Ontology and the vibrancy of matter renewed engagement with materiality; work in Science and Technology Studies has prompted in a similar reconsideration of the relation of humans to the things around them (within actor network theory, the study of standards, formats, etc); in materialist feminisms and ecocritical work there has been a similar turn to thinking bodies and their environments. Questions around materiality are increasingly front and center in film and media studies as well, informing everything from the material cultures of films, to toys and tie-ins in franchise culture, to material objects in museum displays, to infrastructure studies as a subset of media studies, to the focus on trash and the byproducts of visual culture (landfills of E.T. game cartridges, data waste, etc). This focus on the material also offers a vantage point from which to think the global, as flows of matter point to different – and sometimes unexpected – geographies of the moving image.This course asks students to grapple with how various perspectives on materiality impact the both the methodologies and the objects of study of the moving image, with an eye to asking students to rethink their own research projects from a materialist perspective. FMST 807 A /4 (Winter)  Thursdays, 13H15-17H15Location: H-333PROSEMINAR II: Academic LabourInstructor: Kay DickinsonThis seminar situates higher education within broader global trends in cognitive labour, the marketization of knowledge, competition and product differentiation, and policy decisions around public provision. It scrutinizes dimensions of academic work such as teaching, grant writing and conference presentation with an eye not simply to developing the requisite skills for entering these domains, but also for critiquing these particular formations. As such, it engages with the literature on questions of “immaterial” and casualized labour, the outsourcing and offshoring of academic work, free education models, and radical pedagogy.© Concordia UniversityMel Hoppenheim School of CinemaConcordia UniversityCoursesMel Hoppenheim School of Cinema
            
                Mel Hoppenheim School of Cinema
            Key resourcesJoin the conversationConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/academics/interdisciplinary/courses.htmlMany courses which have an interdisciplinary approach and are recommended and/or required by a variety of departments are listed in this section.An interdisciplinary survey of the major issues and challenges of the HIV pandemic. Such topics as the biology of the virus, therapeutic, clinical and epidemiological research developments, the social costs of sexual taboos and discrimination, and media and artistic representation by and of people with HIV are presented by faculty and visiting community experts. The epidemics in the Western hemisphere, Africa, Asia, and other regions are addressed. Learning is based on lectures, weekly tutorials, and community involvement.An interdisciplinary survey of approaches to research in sexuality within the humanities, the arts, and the social sciences. Basic concepts of sexual identity, values, conduct, representation, and politics are addressed through such topical concerns as pornography and censorship, and through the perennial dialogue between biological and socio-cultural models of sexuality. The relation between theories and research methods is discussed in the context of classical and current research and creative activity. The syllabus reflects the varying specializations of the instructors from year to year.This course teaches students how to use the latest Windows operating system in combination with Microsoft Office applications and how to use these tools to produce attractive, efficient, and informative documents. Basic notions of word processing, document design, data organization, and presentation are explored. The course is based on a step‑by‑step learning process, whereby students acquire the tools that they need to accomplish a specific task. A minimum of 40 hours of laboratory work is required.Prerequisite: INTE 290 or equivalent. This course introduces students to Web document development in a networked PC environment. Students learn how to create Web documents, scripts, and animation using a variety of Web development, scripting, and animation tools. The course format is a mix of lectures, hands‑on experience in the computer laboratory, and text. A minimum of 40 hours of laboratory work is required.This course introduces students to the use of contemporary computer tools in scientific applications. It is designed for students with some familiarity with the fundamentals of computing who wish to use computers as tools for research within science disciplines. The format is largely self-instructional, using computer-based tutorial packages. A minimum of 40 hours of laboratory work is required.This course introduces students to the basics of statistics and is aimed at mastering the elementary analytical concepts of the subject. Topics include descriptive statistics, correlation and regression analysis, experimental analysis (test procedures), probability (distribution and theory), hypothesis testing, and analysis of variance.Specific topics for these courses, and prerequisites relevant in each case, will be stated in the Undergraduate Class Schedule.Prerequisite: 30 credits. An interdisciplinary survey of the basic post-1970 theories of sexual minorities and diversity, in their historical and cultural contexts. Authors from Michel Foucault to Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick are introduced, as well as the work of artists and performers from Derek Jarman to k.d. lang. The syllabus reflects the varying specializations of the instructors from year to year.Specific topics for these courses, and prerequisites relevant in each case, will be stated in the Undergraduate Class Schedule.Specific topics for these courses, and prerequisites relevant in each case, will be stated in the Undergraduate Class Schedule.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityInterdisciplinary coursesFaculty of Arts and Science
            
                Faculty of Arts and ScienceINTE 270 (also listed as FFAR 290)
HIV/AIDS: Cultural, Social and Scientific Aspects of the Pandemic (6 credits)INTE 275 (also listed as FASS 291)
Introduction to Sexuality Research (3 credits)INTE 290 Introduction to Computer Usage and Document Design (3 credits)INTE 291 Web Document Development (3 credits)INTE 293 Computer Application Development (3 credits)INTE 296 Discover Statistics (3 credits)INTE 298 Special Topics (3 credits)INTE 299 Special Topics (6 credits)INTE 392 (also listed as FASS 392)
INTE 398 Special Topics (3 credits)INTE 399 Special Topics (6 credits)INTE 498 Special Topics (3 credits)INTE 499 Special Topics (6 credits)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Note: Students who have received credit for FFAR 290, FFAR 390, INTE 390, or for this topic under an FFAR 398 or INTE 398 number may not take this course for credit.Note: Students who have received credit for FASS 291, FASS 391, or INTE 391 may not take this course for credit.Note: Computer Science students, or students enrolled in Mathematics and Statistics programs, may not take this course for credit.Note: Students who have received credit for this topic under an INTE 298 number may not take this course for credit.
Note: See §200.7 for equivalent statistics coursesNote: Students who have received credit for FASS 392 may not taket this course for credit.