http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/sdbi/programs/current-courses.htmlThese are the course schedules for 2016-2017Course prerequisites are explained in the undergraduate calendar.This course provides an introduction to theories and writing that affect the lives of women. Through the writing of feminist authors, students examine, from mainly the 20th century, the development of feminist theories and debate. Specific authors may include Simone de Beauvoir, Audre Lorde, Gloria Anzaldua, Angela Davis, Adrienne Rich, Monique Wittig, and Chandra Mohanty. This course explores a range of current issues and debates within feminism. Using interdisciplinary feminist theories that consider how systems of power such as patriarchy, capitalism, racism, and heterosexism constitute one another, it examines particular local and global topics of interest/concern which may include health, education, work, violence against women, globalization, militarism, media and cultural representations, families, and feminist activism.

NOTE: Students who have received credit for WSDZ 291 may not take this course for credit.This course exposes students to a variety of research practices from a feminist perspective. These practices can include oral history, interviews, archival research, and participant observation. Students learn how to gather, analyze, and effectively present ideas and information. Practical, hands-on exercises offer an opportunity for learning. Examination of research methods occurs in dialogue with questions of how knowledge is organized. Students are also exposed to recent developments in information literacy. This course prepares students to conduct their own research projects throughout their studies.
 
 Prerequisite:  Enrolment in a Women's Studies program or permission of the Institute.This course introduces students to the main aspects of feminist thought across the disciplines. Through a selection of readings and case studies, feminist thought is examined in two interrelated senses: the exercise of woman-centred inquiry, and feminism as a critique of existing knowledge frameworks. Students are introduced to fundamental feminist notions such as the distinction between the private and the public, the notion of experience, androcentrism, and the division between the family and the economy. The history of feminist thought is explored as well as its articulation since the 1970s and its contribution to Women’s Studies and to social theory in general. Also examined is the potential and power of different feminist theories to effect social change and transform the social world they analyze.NOTE: Students who have received credit for WSDB 394 may not take this course for credit.This course aims to acquaint students with the concerns and contemporary realities of Indigenous women in North America. It examines Indigenous politics, activism, and culture through current feminist, decolonizing and post-colonial lenses. The course examines issues such as identity, representation, citizenship, land, sovereignty, nationalism, sexual and social violence, and de/re/colonization. Students develop critical thinking skills necessary to explore how sexism and racism are encoded in Canadian institutions and laws, how Indigenous women have engaged with the resulting disenfranchisement, and how they have been leading actors in Indigenous struggles, making significant contributions to their communities and nations.NOTE: Students who have received credit for this topic under the WSDB 398 number may not take this course for credit.The first part of the course reviews the emergence of Trans Studies: what came before it and what distinguished it from other forms of knowledge about trans people. Also reviewed is Trans Studies’ theoretical and methodological heritage, including the ways in which Feminism and Queer Theory have shaped the field’s interests. The second part of the course evaluates Trans Studies in action by looking at selected aspects of some trans people’s lives: their history, community building, access to health care and social services, criminalization, and self-narration.Note: Students who have received credit for this topic under the WSDB 398 number may not take this course for credit.Using feminist scholarship, this course covers themes such as militarism, the war industry, women in the military, war mythologies, organized and domestic violence, roles played by women during wars, wars against women, peace education and feminist peace activism.Prerequisite: See N.B. 1.This course presents feminist, intersectional, postcolonialist, poststructuralist and queer examinations of a variety of women’s health issues. It explores the complex cultural politics that tend to legitimize existing power relations in health care, health research, and “health” industries. Topics include biopolitics and surveillance of women’s bodies, medicalization and disease mongering, patriarchal capitalism and the health industry, cosmetic surgery and oppression or agency, women’s health and sociocultural identifications, feminist medical ethics, and alternative and feminist health care.Using an interdisciplinary cultural studies framework and a feminist theoretical lens that privileges questions of power, this course examines the contemporary tourism phenomena, especially as it pertains to people from the Global North visiting places in the Global South.  At the heart of this course are questions of gender, race, and class and sexuality vis-à-vis diverse forms of tourism. While the course will explore a number of contentious themes and practices related to contemporary tourism including sex tourism and political tourism, it is especially concerned with engaging debate about the paradoxes of “responsible” tourism. Some of the specific questions explored in this course will include:  1) How do tourist interactions with ‘locals’ shape subjectivities? 2) How do tourists understand themselves in relation to the places they visit? 3) How do gender, race, citizenship, and class impact the experiences of tourists? 4) What are the possibilities and limitations of using responsible forms of tourism to challenge global inequity?This course aims towards a critical study of the relationship between women and law.  Historically, particular groups of women interface with law based on various intersections of real or perceived culture, race, gender, class, status, to name a few. This course critically examines how women interface with law and conversely, how law both dictates and regulates women. We will critically examine how legal, social, cultural, and political contexts perpetuate the criminalization of women and maintain conflict for women facing the law. The course includes texts from both academics and writers with lived experiences of being in conflict with law.This class will analyze the ways that food accessibility and environmental threats are gendered, sexualized, and racialized within the global context in the 20th and 21st centuries. In the chart below, you can see my proposed schedule for the course. We will begin by studying the intellectual linkages between feminism and environmentalism. For the rest of the semester, each week will be devoted to seeing how topics such as population and reproduction; animal rights; the politics of meat and consumption; agriculture; land access; water rights; environmental toxins; energy and extraction policies; nuclear energy and warfare; urbanization; and climate change are gendered. The class will also look at social movements and activism that has tried to combat or ameliorate some of these issues. A discussion of economic theory will be interwoven throughout the semester as it is impossible to discuss resource extraction and usage without understanding globalization, capitalism, and international development.This course examines the complex relationship between feminism and comedy through an interdisciplinary framework. Positing comedy as social/cultural texts, it asks: how can comedy be used to challenge inequalities and promote social change? While several types/genres will be explored (i.e. political satire, sketch comedy, situational comedy), the main focus of the course will be ‘stand-up’.While Feminist Thought I examines feminism as critique of theory in various historical and disciplinary topics, this course looks closely at the different feminist theories of the social world. The course considers fundamental concepts of Marxist feminism, post-structuralist feminist theory, feminist critical theory, and post-colonialist feminisms. Students learn how to summarize these different theoretical approaches, as well as how to think about them in a comparative manner.This interdisciplinary seminar considers the effect of systems of gender, race, and class on women’s place in society. It takes into account recent developments in feminist scholarship in the humanities and social sciences.This seminar explores the central concepts and theories in feminist cultural studies, as they inform feminist, post-colonial, queer, and post-structuralist understandings of culture. The focus is on women as cultural producers and subjects in/of various cultural texts (e.g. cinema, visual arts, music, advertising, popular media, feminist writings). The discursive construction of gender, as it is inflected by class, race, sexuality, and location, is examined as well as the ways in which it is used, displayed, imagined and performed in contemporary culture. Students develop practical and analytical skills, posing questions of how particular cultural narratives function within social, political and economic contexts. Students are required to participate in and lead discussions of the readings and to create and/or critique cultural productions.The course is devoted to understanding the gendered dimensions of colonial/imperial relations of power and resistance both in historical and contemporary contexts. The main themes covered in the course include settler colonialism in Canada; knowledge, representations and power; contemporary challenges and resistance to anti-imperialist struggles; and post-colonial analyses of current economic and political relations.

NOTE: Students who have received credit for this topic under WSDB 498 may not take this course for credit.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityCurrent coursesSimone de Beauvoir Institute
            
                Simone de Beauvoir InstitutePrerequisitesWSDB 290 - Introduction to Historical Perspectives in Women's StudiesWSDB 291 - Introduction to Contemporary Concerns in Women’s StudiesWSDB 292 - Feminisms and Research MethodsWSDB  380/2 - Feminist Thought I WSDB 381/4 - Indigenous Women and Feminisms  	 		 	 		 	 		 	 		 	WSDB 385/2 - Intro to Trans StudiesWSDB 390/2 - Feminist Perspectives on PeaceWSDB 391/2 - Health Issues: Feminist PerspectivesWSDB 398/1 - Selfies, Sexting & Social MediaWSDB 398/2 - Selected Topics in WSDB: Contemporary Tourism & Relations to Power WSDB 398/2 - Selected Topics in WSDB: Women in Conflict with the LawWSDB 398/4 - Selected Topics in WSDB: Feminism and EnvironmentalismWSDB 398/4 - Feminism & ComedyWSDB 480/4 - Feminist Thought IIWSDB 490/4 - Feminist Ethics WSDB 491/2 - Feminist Perspectives on CultureWSDB  492/4  Post-colonial and Anti-colonial Feminist Theories and Practice     WSDB 498/4 - Seminar in Women’s Studies: Feminist Perspectives on Family/StateConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424