http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/creative-arts-therapies/programs/drama-therapy-ma.htmlDrama and theatre-based approaches to healing empower individuals to articulate their feelings in a less traditional and embodied way. Various methods make use of symbols and metaphors so clients who are unable to express themselves verbally can find new ways to navigate difficult issues and subjects. We need drama therapy researchers, scholars and practitioners to engage with clients in the language of play and lead the healing process through dramatic expressions and practices.The MA in Creative Arts Therapies, Drama Therapy option, provides you with an environment to facilitate personal growth by integrating dramatic and theatrical techniques with other therapeutic approaches. Our distinguished faculty members employ diverse approaches to drama therapy and place a tremendous emphasis on clinical training that relies heavily on experiential learning opportunities.Benefit from two eight-month-long practicums where you will work directly with clients in conjunction with an on-site co-therapist and supervisor, as well as your departmental supervisor. Montreal provides a myriad of local sites to carry out your practicum, including the Centre for the Arts in Human Development at Concordia University. Other placement possibilities include hospitals and health care institutions, community centres, geriatric facilities, and schools.The Drama Therapy option is a professional program approved by the North American Drama Therapy Association (NADTA). You will receive a one-year complimentary membership in the NADTA and graduate from our program, having met the association’s educational requirements, to become a Registered Drama Therapist. Graduates can apply for the Canadian Certified Counsellor designation offered through the Canadian Counselling and Psychotherapy Association, and qualify in many states and provinces that require licensing.Requirements for the DegreeAdditionally, students choose to enter one of two streams of research in the program containing the following requirements:Research Paper - CATS 689: Research Paper (9 credits)
OR
Applied Research Project - CATS 698: Applied Research Project with Report (6 credits) and
CATS 699: Comprehensive Exam (3 credits).See the graduate calendar for complete program details.Admission Requirements. Entry into the program requires a bachelor’s/baccalaureate degree with courses in Theatre (24 credits or approved equivalents): Psychology (24 credits, which must include courses in Introductory, Developmental, and Abnormal Psychology, Theories of Personality, and a research methodology course to be approved by an academic faculty advisor, or approved equivalents); and An Introduction to Drama Therapy (3 credits). Since enrolment is limited, applicants are selected on the basis of a past academic record of no less than a B average, a 500-word letter of intent, and three letters of recommendation. Applicants must submit documentation, which may include video material of their involvement in drama and theatre. Previous work experience in a clinical, rehabilitative, or educational setting is expected. Direct experience with the therapeutic process is highly desirable.Please review the department application requirements before applying online. Read the how-to-guide for general application procedures.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Courses typically offered include:Consult the graduate calendar for a complete list of core Creative Arts Therapies courses and our department site for a sample course sequence.Our department hosts a semi-annual workshop for prospective students where faculty members will walk you through a drama therapy exercise. The day offers you the chance to explore your thoughts on drama therapy and provides information on Concordia, our program prerequisites and how to complete an application. You will also be introduced to a number of international creative arts therapy organizations.New students are automatically eligible for fellowships and select awards offered within the Faculty of Fine Arts and the School of Graduate Studies, ranging from $2,000 to $20,000 per year. Some awards have specific criteria and can be based on academic excellence and financial need.Please also consult the departmental graduate fellowships and awards page, as well as Concordia’s graduate funding page and Financial Aid and Awards.The practicum component of our program provides you with the opportunity to apply the knowledge and skills that you are acquiring in your coursework. It is the vehicle for integrating theory with clinical experience – a critical element in the development of the professional competence of a drama therapist. Practicum includes both clinical experience and supervision. You must successfully complete 800 hours (350 direct client contact hours and 450 agency hours) in an approved practicum setting.Clinical experience is acquired in a variety of agencies in the greater Montreal area, providing you with a practical application of drama therapy.  Supervision is provided at both the agency and at the university.You are placed in one major placement per year.The Creative Arts Therapies Student Graduate Association promotes stronger interdisciplinary ties with the Concordia community at large. Become an elected officer and participate in a number of committees that make a vital contribution to university activities.An MA in Drama Therapy prepares you for careers in various sectors, including health care institutions, schools and prisons. Many of our graduates also work in domestic violence and addictions treatment centres and shelters. Read about our alumni career stories. The practicum is of tremendous benefit in familiarizing you with the working environment. Occasionally, graduates have gone on to full or part-time work at the health care institution of their practicum. Graduates from the program have found employment throughout Canada as well as internationally.Graduates are encouraged to maintain membership in the North American Drama Therapy Association.© Concordia UniversityAbout the department
Programs
Research
Student life
News & events
Contact usConcordia UniversityDrama Therapy (MA)Department of Creative Arts Therapies
            
                Department of Creative Arts Therapies
            Key resourcesDegree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Workshops for prospective students
                
            
                
					
                    Funding
                
            
                
					
                    Practicum
                
            
                
					
                    Student initiatives
                
            
                
					
                    Your professional futureWhy pursue a master's in Drama Therapy?Program DetailsDepartment of Creative Arts Therapies Faculty of Fine ArtsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424