http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/economics-ma.htmlThe study of economics has changed considerably since the introduction of mathematical and econometric methods of analysis. The MA program in economics provides the in-depth knowledge of economic theory, quantitative methods and their application that is most valued by business leaders and policy-makers.The program mixes theory and practical applications and allows students to learn in classroom, co-op and specialization programs. In addition to economic theory, macroeconomic and microeconomics, the MA Economics offers course work in econometrics, economic development, financial economics, game theory, industrial economics, international economics, labour economics and public economies.MA students choose areas in which to specialize and pursue advanced course work and research in these fields. Upon graduation, students pursue studies at the doctoral level or find stimulating career opportunities in public organizations or private companies.Requirements for the DegreeAdmission Requirements. An honours degree in economics, from a recognized university, or the equivalent, with a cumulative GPA of 3.00 is required. An applicant may be required to take up to 12 prerequisite undergraduate credits in addition to, but as part of, the regular graduate program. Some applicants may be required to pass a qualifying program, as a condition for entry into the regular MA program.Your completed application will include:Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures.Fall: Late applications will be considered until April 1. 
 Winter: Late applications will be considered until August 1. Applicants who wish to be considered beyond the published deadline may not be eligible for funding.Consult the Graduate Calendar for a list of courses.MA students can gain valuable work experience while they study by participating in the MA Economics Co-op program.The Co-op program has the same academic content as the regular MA program but allows students to intersperse study terms with work terms. Each work term is noted on student transcripts and academic records.For their work terms, Co-op students are placed in public or private sector organizations. Most serve in Canadian government departments or agencies. Learn more about the Co-op programEconomic development; economic dynamics; econometrics; environmental and natural resources economics; financial and monetary economics; game theory; industrial organization; international trade and finance; labour economics; microeconomics; macroeconomics; public economics; and regional economics.For more information, visit our list of faculty members & their areas of expertise.A number of funding opportunities exist for Economics graduate students. These include: research and teaching assistantships, tutorial assistantships, external scholarships and a limited number of internal fellowships.See full detailsEmail: Elise.Melancon@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 3901Location: 
 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd W., H 1155-53
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 1M8Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityEconomics (MA)Key resourcesDegree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application process
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Co-op program
                
            
                
					
                    Research fields & facilities
                
            
                
					
                    Financial support
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a Master's in economics?Program detailsMaster of Arts (MA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424