http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/education-phd.htmlThe PhD in Education is a research degree that prepares students for positions in academia, educational leadership, research, policy formulation, and consulting.   This program—housed in an internationally ranked Department of Education—prepares students to conduct an original research study, their dissertations—in such a way that it will withstand the most rigorous of peer reviews.  Specifically, our doctoral program offers:Some considerations for potential applicants:Although we do not require that students have previous degrees in Education, those who do not are expected to take prerequisite courses so that they can fully participate in doctoral-level discussions of their specialties.The Department of Education in the Faculty of Arts and Science provides responsible and innovative leadership in the development and dissemination of knowledge about education. Education is an extremely broad and diverse field of study. Departmental epistemologies draw from and contribute to other disciplines in the social science and humanities. They recognize the importance of human learning and performance at the individual (child to adult), defined group (local, cultural and corporate), community and national or global levels.The department’s teaching and research programs are situated on the continuum that links early childhood to aging adulthood. They incorporate methodologies that range from ethnographic to design research to controlled experimental methodologies.The department is known nationally and internationally for the exceptional quality of its graduate programs and offers Doctoral, Master’s and diploma level degrees in four disciplines:These programs focus on many different aspects of education, including history, philosophy, child development, second language learning, as well as fundamental theoretical issues, such as cross-cultural approaches to literacy, issues of differences in gender, class and race, critical theory and pedagogy and feminist critical pedagogy.

Faculty members are a diverse group of educators committed to excellence in teaching, research and community service. Their multidisciplinary pedagogical philosophies inform their teaching practices and their scholarly profiles attract a healthy level of external research funding (averaging $2.5 million annual). This funding provides financial support to many qualified graduate students who have the opportunity to work on groundbreaking research projects as research assistants.

Along with its emphasis on the communication of sound pedagogical principles and research approaches, the department values of equality, diversity and non-discrimination. Class sizes are kept purposefully small because faculty believe in careful mentoring and a constructivist approach to learning.

The retention rate of students is exceptionally high. Many students are enrolled on a part-time basis but complete degree requirements in a timely manner. Graduates enjoy high levels of employment in government service and industry.Adult Education: staff development; adult learning; literacy; learning in the workplace; professional development; self-directed learning; and human relations training.Applied Linguistics: acquisition of second-language phonology; second language literacy; pedagogical grammar; social issues in bilingualism; second language vocabulary and pronunciation; pedagogy for second language learning; and psycholinguistics of bilingualism.Child Study: special education; social-emotional development; play; day care environment and curriculum; familyschool partnerships; school reform; literacy; numeracy; educational testing; children’s health and well-being; and popular culture.Educational Studies: gender issues; adult education; diversity; policies and practices; school reform; moral education; democratic education; and intercultural education.Educational Technology: computer-based learning; computer-supported collaborative learning; distance learning; classroom processes; human performance technology applications; program evaluation; educational evaluation and new technologies; corporate applications of educational technology; systemic modeling of educational systems; learning styles and strategies; and multimedia research and development.Explores the theoretical and practical (pedagogical) aspects of second and bilingual language acquisition, including language  learning, the nature of the language system and its development over time, practices in language teaching, and the consequences of language learning.  Learn moreFocuses on the development of children in three critical contexts: the family, educational settings, and community and culture. Learn moreAn educational foundations that considers anthropological and sociological, comparative and international, and historical and philosophical perspectives on education, and provides interpretive understanding and critiques of educational policies, practices and problems in adult education. Learn moreProvides opportunities for advanced study both in the theoretical foundations of educational technology and its application in practice. Learn moreApplicants must complete a Graduate Admission Application and submit supporting documents:Note: Unlike other doctoral programs, applicants to the PhD in Education do not choose a supervisor as part of the application process.  Instead, we assign an interim supervisor and committee to accepted students, who guide the student through their comprehensive exams (a milestone between the preparation and dissertation phases of the degree that qualifies students to start their dissertations. At that point—with full knowledge of our faculty—students choose a dissertation committee and supervisor.    Learn moreAll applications must be submitted online.*Fall: Late applications may be considered until April 30.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures.The Department of Education offers a variety of teaching and research assistantships, and part-time teaching opportunities, to its PhD students. The selection process is competitive with preference given to experienced applicants with an aptitude for the work to be performed. 

Teaching AssistantshipsA few weeks before the start of the academic year, as well as before the start of new academic terms, the department posts available teaching assistantships, along with application instructionsResearch Assistantships Provide students with the opportunity to participate in the funded projects of individual faculty members and research centres. Hiring occurs throughout the year on an as-needed basis. Some faculty members formally post openings, but students might also contact faculty about possible openings.  

Part-Time InstructorsPhD students may also apply for positions as part-time instructors. Openings are announced in the first part of each year for the subsequent academic year, along with application instructions.
Learn moreSee job postingsEmail: Nadine@education.concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2034Location: 
 1610 Ste-Catherine Street W., FG 5140
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3H 2S2Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityEducation (PhD)Why do your doctorate at Concordia?
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty research interests
                
            
                
					
                    Degree options
                
            Applied linguisticsChild studyEducational studiesEducational technology
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            Additional requirements
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Assistantships & internships
                
            Assistantships and internshipsContact usWhy pursue a doctorate in education?Program DetailsRelated ProgramsDoctorate (PhD)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424