http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/emba.htmlDesigned to develop the complete executive, our program offers an exciting, innovative and unique educational and professional experience.The individual being sponsored is typically a valued employee with an already strong skill-set; someone the organization wants to develop and retain. Learn how the John Molson Executive MBA can help the employer and employee achieve this goal.Andrea Limbardi 
EMBA 2016 Andrea Polatos
EMBA 2009Julien BriseBois EMBA 2007, LLB Université de Montréal© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityJohn Molson Executive MBAJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            ROI for employersEventsGet startedROI for employersStudent testimonialsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/calendar/current/jmsb/emba.htmlAdmission Requirements. New students are admitted into the Executive MBA Program provided they satisfy the following prerequisites:Intensive workshops in Mathematics and Accountancy are offered prior to the start of the program to registered students who would need to refresh their competence. Academic RegulationsF Rule. Students who have not fulfilled these conditions will, at the discretion of the EMBA committee, be considered either a student on probationary standing or a failed student. Students who have failed a course will normally be considered a failed student. Students on probationary standing will have specific requirements set as a condition of being returned to good standing. If these requirements are not met, the student will be considered a failed student. Failed students will be withdrawn from the program.Requirements for the DegreeCredits. A fully-qualified candidate is required to complete a minimum of 46 credits.Mandatory Statistics Module. Candidates must demonstrate competency in statistics by successfully completing the mandatory online Statistics Module and test before the end of the first term. The module and the test cover basic business statistics concepts such as descriptive and inferential statistics, sampling, and variable categorization. In the event that students do not successfully complete the test in the first term, they will be provided with tutoring by the EMBA program and be permitted to take the test again.Required CoursesCore CoursesEMBA 610 Measuring and Reporting Financial Performance
 EMBA 611 Managing Talent
 EMBA 612 Marketing Management
 EMBA 613 Capital Markets and Financial Management
 EMBA 620 Value Creation through Business Processes
 EMBA 621 Information Technology and Analytics
 EMBA 622 Business, Government and the Economy
 EMBA 623 Managing in a Global Environment
 EMBA 630 Financial Decisions under Uncertainty
 EMBA 631 Management Control Systems
 EMBA 632 Creativity and Innovation
 EMBA 633 Applied Field Project I
 EMBA 640 Leadership
 EMBA 641 Corporate Governance
 EMBA 642 Crafting and Implementing a Winning StrategyIntegrative CoursesEMBA 615 Live JMSB Experience
 EMBA 625 Global Experience
 EMBA 635 Starting a New Venture
 EMBA 645 Applied Field Project IICo-curricular ModulesExecutive Coaching:
The Executive Coaching module is structured to focus on a student’s need for leadership and professional development.The Healthy Executive: 
The Healthy Executive module is an integrated set of lectures and activities in health, nutrition, and exercise aimed at enabling students to better manage the executive lifestyle.JMSB Executives Connect Series:
 The JMSB Executives Connect Series aims to expose students to leaders and experts who are shaping the business world today. Course DescriptionsEMBA 610 Measuring and Reporting Financial Performance (3 credits)
The focus of this course is on the use of financial statements to assess a company's performance and the creation of firm value. The objective is to understand the relation between a company's strategic decisions, business activities and its financial statements. It also examines how boards of directors and investors can gauge the effectiveness of managerial stewardship in the creation of shareholder value. The course is taught using the case method.EMBA 611 Managing Talent (3 credits)
The issues related to the management of people within organizations are the focus of the course. The course covers the broad topics of human behaviour and motivation as well as the processes that influence these in organizational contexts. Topics include human resource planning, recruiting, selection, training and development, performance management, compensation and legal frameworks for non-union and union environments.  The course uses case studies, in-class exercises and exams. Students develop an understanding of the strategic partnership between the human resource function and managers allowing the company to capitalize fully on the potential of people as a source of competitive advantage.EMBA 612 Marketing Management (3 credits)
The important role of marketing is studied and the skills developed to lead this function in an organization or to interact effectively with it. Attention is given to such topics as marketing planning, strategy formulation and control, customer focus, customer value creation, positioning, branding, pricing, communications and distribution. Deploying lectures, case discussions and application-oriented readings, the requisite mindset is nurtured to facilitate marketing excellence in today's multi-faceted and dynamic external environment.EMBA 613 Capital Markets and Financial Management (3 credits)
The role of financial information in corporate management is examined. Students learn how the capital markets process and aggregate information provided by firms and governments in order to evaluate the risk and return trade-offs of business decisions. Students apply this knowledge to the evaluation of alternative investment opportunities. They learn how to identify and interpret the information needed to make profitable investment decisions.EMBA 615 Live JMSB Experience (1 credit)
The Live JMSB Experience, an integrative course, gives students the opportunity to use the knowledge acquired during the first term in a context that mirrors the reality of contemporary business. Students are exposed to senior managers of a Canadian company facing strategic and managerial issues. Using critical thinking, students work in teams to craft a solution for the company and present their recommendations to a panel of the senior managers and faculty members.EMBA 620 Value Creation through Business Processes (3 credits)
This course looks at how companies can improve their business processes to deliver services or build products that are valued by their customers. In today’s business environment, companies are closely interconnected with global supply chains and distribution channels as well as multiple stakeholders. In this course, students learn to design, operate and improve a network of operations among various stakeholders to ensure that systems are properly managed so that the flow of material and information is fluid. Some of the topics covered include supply chain network design, service delivery improvement, sourcing, risk management and enterprise resource planning (ERP).EMBA 621 Information Technology and Analytics (3 credits)
Students learn how to use information systems and develop analytical skills to support organizational strategy and decision making. The use of information technology as well as current industry practices and trends are examined. The importance of data-driven decision making and policy formulation is covered by a practical approach to statistical and analytical tools.  Topics covered include strategic and tactical role of information technology and techniques of business analytics such as data mining, data visualization, and forecasting. The integrative course shows how information technology and analytical tools are used in accountancy, marketing, finance and supply chain by using projects, exercises and case studies.EMBA 622 Business, Government and the Economy (1.5 credits)
The course provides a non-technical introduction to government policy analysis from the perspective of the business executive. We begin with a discussion of the differences between private and public goods and the impact of external forces on different stakeholders. The role of government and business in the creation and resolution of problems created by outside influences will be evaluated. Topics discussed in class may include the nature and role of public-private partnerships, regulation as both a limitation and an opportunity and the role of government in international trade and foreign direct investment.EMBA 623 Managing in a Global Environment (3 credits)
The complexities of doing business in a global environment are studied. Major issues include supply chain management, cross-cultural management and communication, global investment and partnership, international strategy and marketing, international human resource management, ethics, law and social responsibility. A portion of this course also integrates the economic, social, cultural and business aspects of the region visited in the Global Experience course.EMBA 625 Global Experience (1 credit)
This integrative course allows students to experience doing business abroad. Scheduled at the end of the second term, students have the opportunity to apply the business knowledge gained by being exposed to business practices in a specific region. The global experience takes students inside individual companies and industries abroad and provides them with an overview of the broader economic, political, social and cultural factors that influence business opportunities and practices.EMBA 630 Financial Decisions Under Uncertainty (3 credits)
Students apply recent advances in corporate finance theory to evaluate complex decisions that may have a profound effect on the future of a firm. Through the use of cases and projects, students evaluate and recommend different decisions within the constraints imposed by the ownership and governance structure of the firm. Examples include making choices on raising debt or equity, using capital for investment or to reward shareholders and whether to go public or remain private.EMBA 631 Management Control Systems (3 credits)
In this course, students learn how to use performance measurement, evaluation and incentive control systems to create value for an organization and its stakeholders. Control systems are critical for success in the implementation of a firm’s strategy and the course highlights several managerial challenges in this regard. Students learn to use limited physical, human and financial resources efficiently and creatively within uncertainty conditions. A “how-to” approach is adopted that emphasizes practical cases and applications reflecting real organizational issues.EMBA 632 Creativity and Innovation (1.5 credits)
Students are introduced to the theoretical concepts of creativity and innovation with the goal of implementing novel ideas in organizations. The purpose is to develop students’ own creative abilities to solve business challenges in a more effective way. Based on lectures, case studies and experiential exercises, the course also proposes techniques needed to foster innovative processes in others.EMBA 633 Applied Field Project I (1.5 credits)
The first part of this two-part integrative course provides students with an opportunity to tackle a major business problem or issue of their choice, thereby allowing them to apply the knowledge and competencies acquired to date. In teams, students develop and present to the class a business project proposal focusing on a problem or issue faced by the organization they have chosen. A project proposal is the main assignment for the course.EMBA 635 Starting a New Venture (3 credits)
The goal of this integrative course is to engage students in the theory and practice of entrepreneurship and innovation in businesses. The course is built around a group project whose objective is to create a comprehensive innovative business plan for a novel stand-alone business, or a new line of business within an existing organization. This project provides students with an opportunity to identify a market opportunity. Students assess its business potential and viability, structure and financing options as well as exit strategies.  Groups present their business plans to a board of potential investors.EMBA 640 Leadership (3 credits)
Leadership is the process of influencing and supporting others in the accomplishment of a common task. In addition to providing a critical review of key concepts, models, and theories of leadership, the course allows students to develop and apply their leadership abilities in organizational settings, especially in the context of change. Students are engaged in practical exercises, case studies, simulations and role-playing activities. Elements of the leadership development module are integrated and leveraged within the course in order to improve students’ ability to lead with purpose, inspire others and enable change.EMBA 641 Corporate Governance (1.5 credits)
Students learn the principles and practices underlying governance, the system by which organizations are directed and controlled to create value for their shareholders but also to all stakeholders involved in its value chain.  Students review how an organization’s governance structure allocates rights and responsibilities to make decisions among stakeholders and specifies procedures for decision making. The course focus on the actions and decisions of corporate boards of directors and on their interactions with managers and stakeholders such as investors.  Particular attention is directed toward the ethical and sustainability dimensions of corporate governance.EMBA 642 Crafting and Implementing a Winning Strategy (3 credits)
The important issues involved in developing strategy in various business sectors are the focus of the course. Students learn to formulate strategies that clearly state the growth path for companies. The course also looks at winning strategies defining how companies can compete against their rivals in specific business sectors. Students study strategy implementation and examine how functional strategies can be key instruments for business success. The course also looks at the relationship between strategy, culture and structure of the organization.EMBA 645 Applied Field Project II (2 credits)
In this capstone integrative course, students carry out the project proposal identified in Applied Field Project I. Students gather data, diagnose issues and develop innovative and practical responses to complex, cross-disciplinary issues. At the end of the course, a comprehensive set of recommendations is presented to a panel of faculty members, EMBA peers, and representatives from the respective organizations. The key deliverable of this course is the actual set of recommendations and implementation plan that are designed to address the selected problem or issue.Top© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
MBA (Executive Option)Master of/Magisteriate in Business Administration (Executive Option)Executive MBA WebsiteConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424