http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/calendar/current/encs/engineering-programs.htmlEnglish Language ProficiencyTOEFL/IELTS Admission RequirementsThe provisional minimum acceptance score for the Internet-based Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iBT) for admission into a graduate program for students whose first language is not English and/or who have not received a substantial amount of their education in English is 85, with a minimum of 20 in each section. In all cases, Concordia reserves the right to require proof of English proficiency when such proof is deemed necessary. (Concordia will accept test results for the paper-based TOEFL if they are less than 2 years old). The minimum required score for the paper-based TOEFL is 563. The IELTS (International English Language Testing System) requires a minimum Band score of 6.5. Individual programs may require a higher score. Applicants should check their prospective program’s requirements.In addition to the general admission requirements, the Faculty may require applicants to write the Engineering Writing Test (EWT) as a condition of admission to all graduate programs in Engineering and Computer Science. Depending on the result, students may be required to complete remedial English language courses in addition to their program requirements.Engineering Writing Test (EWT)The Engineering Writing Test examines students’ ability to provide reasoned assessment of a short technical composition in English or French, and their ability to provide a qualitative account of quantitative or graphically presented data. The test is offered a number of times throughout the year. Based on their performance in the test, students may be asked to take remedial courses.Academic RegulationsAll students registered in a Faculty graduate degree program are assessed at the end of each academic year. This assessment is based on:Standings of students are determined as follows:TopThe Doctor of/Doctorate in Philosophy program leads to the highest degree offered by the Faculty and is designed to provide students an opportunity to obtain the greatest possible expertise in their chosen field through intensive research. Advancement of analytical and/or experimental knowledge through a combination of specialized courses and a research thesis under the supervision of an experienced researcher forms the main component of the doctoral programs. Where possible, research of interest to industry is encouraged. The objectives of the PhD program is to educate highly qualified researchers required for the expansion of fundamental knowledge and technological innovation through research and development, as well as the needs of institutions of higher learning.Admission Requirements. To be considered for admission on a full-time basis, applicants normally must hold a master’s degree or equivalent with high standing in engineering or computer science, or in a cognate discipline. Holders of a bachelor’s degree will, in general, be considered for admission to a master’s program only. After completion of a minimum of two terms of full-time study, they may, upon application, be considered by the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee for admission to a PhD program.To be considered for admission on a part-time basis, applicants must hold a master’s degree with high standing in engineering, computer science or a cognate discipline. Applicants should understand that admission is contingent not only upon a superior academic record, but also on the availability of a research supervisor, of relevant programs of study and research, as well as adequate laboratory and library facilities. Where applicable, an ability to write programs in a standard computer language will be assumed. Students lacking this skill will be required to register for appropriate courses.Requirements for the DegreeTopThis program is designed to provide students with an opportunity to strengthen, in some specific area or areas, the knowledge gained at the undergraduate level, and to provide a significant introduction to research. It will appeal primarily to the student interested in full-time study.Admission Requirements. Applicants to the MASc program should hold a bachelor’s degree in engineering or equivalent with high standing. Consideration will also be given to candidates with a degree in a cognate area with high standing; such students may be required to enrol in an extended program. In particular, applicants with a bachelor’s degree in architecture will be considered for the MASc in Building Engineering. The Faculty Graduate Studies Committee will determine the acceptability of an applicant for admission to the program and may require an applicant to take specified undergraduate courses in order to qualify for acceptance. Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be required to take such courses in addition to their regular graduate program. Applicants with deficiencies in their undergraduate preparation may be required to take a qualifying program. An ability to write simple programs in a standard computer language will be assumed. Students lacking this skill will be required to register for a course prescribed by the Graduate Program Director. This course will be taken in addition to regular degree requirements.Applications. Applications for admission from within Canada must be complete by June 1 for the Fall term, October 1 for the Winter term, and February 1 for the Summer term. Applications from outside Canada must be complete by February 15 for the Fall term, June 15 for the Winter term, and October 15 for the Summer term.Requirements for the Degree TopThis program is designed to provide practicing engineers with an opportunity to strengthen and extend the knowledge they have obtained at the undergraduate level, to develop their design skills, and to enhance their ability to present technical material in written form.Admission Requirements. Applicants to the MEng Program must hold a bachelor’s degree in engineering or equivalent with high standing. Applicants with a bachelor’s degree in architecture with high engineering content may also be considered for the MEng program. Such students will be required to enrol in an extended program. The Faculty Graduate Studies Committee will determine the acceptability of an applicant for admission to the program and may require an applicant to take specified undergraduate courses in order to qualify for acceptance. Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be required to take such courses in addition to their regular graduate program. Applicants with deficiencies in their undergraduate preparation may be required to take a qualifying program. An ability to write simple programs in a standard computer language will be assumed. Students lacking this skill will be required to register for the appropriate course. This course will be taken in addition to regular degree requirements.Applications. Applications for admission from within Canada must be complete by June 1 for the Fall term, October 1 for the Winter term, and February 1 for the Summer term. Applications from outside Canada must be complete by February 15 for the Fall term, June 15 for the Winter term, and October 15 for the Summer term.Requirements for the DegreeProject. Depending on individual department requirements, students may choose to do one or more projects as part of their program. They do so by registering for one or more of the sequence ENGR 6971, 6981, 6991. Where students choose to carry out a multi-course project, the project will be graded by at least two professors.ENGR 6971 Project and Report I (4 credits). The purpose of the project report is to provide students in the MEng program with an opportunity to carry out independent project work and to present it in an acceptable form. The project may consist of the following:Before registration for a project course, a student must obtain written consent of a faculty member who will act as advisor for the report. A form for this consent is available in the Office of the Dean of Engineering and Computer Science.A four-credit report is due on the last day of classes of the term (fall, winter, summer) in which it is registered. Students are expected to have a preliminary version of their report approved by their advisor before its final submission. On or before the submission deadline, students must submit three copies of the report to their advisors, who will grade the report. One copy of the report will be returned to the students, one retained by the advisors, and one by the department.The report, including an abstract, must be suitably documented and illustrated, should be at least 5000 words in length, must be typewritten on one side of 21.5 cm by 28 cm white paper of quality, and must be enclosed in binding. Students are referred to Form and Style: Thesis, Report, Term Papers, fourth edition by Campbell and Ballou, published by Houghton Migglin.ENGR 6981 Project and Report II (4 credits)ENGR 6991 Project and Report III (5 credits)With the permission of their Department, students in the MEng Program may register for these project courses if they wish to carry out a more extended project, or if they wish to complete further projects. Each project course requires prior approval by the faculty member who has accepted to supervise the work. Students working on a multi-course project must register for the corresponding project courses in successive terms. For ENGR 6991 and multi-course projects, the report is due on the last day of classes of the last term in which they are registered. In the case of ENGR 6991 and multi-course project, three copies of the report must be submitted to the advisor on or before this deadline, and students are also required to make an oral presentation to the evaluators, and other members of the community. The report will be evaluated by the advisor and at least one other Engineering and Computer Science member of the Faculty.Industrial Experience Option in the Master of EngineeringApplicants to the Master of Engineering may apply to the Industrial Experience option in the industrial milieu through the Institute for Co-operative Education. Students should indicate their choice on the application form. The Institute for Co-operative Education will help them with resumes, cover letters and interview techniques. The suggested schedule is as follows: fall and winter terms will be dedicated to course work followed by one term in industry, culminating with two terms in University for the remaining course work. The industrial experience term will be noted on the student transcript/record.Students apply to the Industrial Experience option as early as possible, preferably when they enter the program. It is preferable to be bilingual in French and English if they wish to work in Quebec. Students who lack good language skills and still want to be part of the program should improve their language skills prior to final acceptance.Admission CriteriaStudents need to be enrolled in the Industrial Experience option at least the semester before going on a work term. They begin applying for jobs the semester prior to the work term. Previous work experience cannot be used toward credit for the ENCS 6931. Students should have good grades (greater than a CGPA of 3.40) for the master’s program, be full-time and have good communication skills. A Canadian work permit is required. The Departmental Co-op Program Director will recommend final acceptance to the Industrial Experience option.ENCS 6931 Industrial Stage and Training (9 credits)
Prerequisite: Completion of at least twenty credits in the program and permission of the Departmental Co-op Program Director.
This is an integral component of the Industrial Experience option that is to be completed under the supervision of an experienced engineer/computer scientist in the facilities of a participating company (a Canadian work permit is required).
Each student receives an assessment from the Departmental Co-op Program Director in consultation with the industry supervisor and the faculty advisor. Grading is on a pass/fail basis based on a proposal, monthly progress reports, a final report and a presentation.Top© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
Engineering and Computer Science ProgramsDegrees
Doctor of/Doctorate in Philosophy
Master of/Magisteriate in Applied Science
Master of/Magisteriate in EngineeringFaculty of Engineering and Computer Science WebsiteConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424