http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/english-phd.htmlTake your training as a literary scholar to the next level.  Deepen your mastery of period- and area-specific archives as you develop the intensive disciplinary self-consciousness that propels the renewal of the field.You’ll investigate the cultural categories of literature and the media, in both historical and contemporary contexts. Inspired by Concordia’s rich culture of interdisciplinary collaboration and its location in a vibrant, bilingual city, you’ll study literatures in English in the context of cross-disciplinary, cross-cultural, and cross-linguistic environments and exchanges.The program will be of special interest to those doctoral students with the desire and skills necessary to work across discourses, media, or literary languages and/or traditions.Requirements for the DegreeAdmission Requirements. Applicants are assessed by the Department of English’s Graduate Committee on the basis of undergraduate and graduate transcripts, letters of recommendation, research ability, and a letter of intent. The following criteria serve as admission requirements:*** In exceptional circumstances, outstanding students who have completed 18 credits of course work in English Literature at the master's level may be admitted into the PhD program before satisfying the remaining master's requirements.Your completed application will include:Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures. Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Consult the graduate calendar for a complete list of courses and read about upcoming, current and past course offeringsWe are committed to providing financial support to all of our students. PhD candidates usually receive three-year funding packages, which include Concordia fellowships and English teaching assistantships. Students are eligible to apply for graduate funding (e.g., conference awards, accelerator funds) throughout the degree. We also assist you in the preparation of applications for external grants from SSHRC  and the FQRSCPlease consult the English Department’s funding page and Financial Aid and AwardsOur faculty are accomplished scholars across many fields of literature. Learn more about us by visiting:Graduate students hold writing sessions and workshops, host literary and scholarly events, and publish a journal. Learn more about Concordia Write Nights, Headlight, and visit SAGE to get involved.  Our doctoral students will emerge prepared to enrich the social and cultural milieux of Montreal, Québec, Canada, and beyond, embarking upon careers as researchers, educators and writers either inside or outside of the academy.Email: Bonnie.Campbell@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2344Location: 
 1400 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W., LB 641
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 2V8 Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityEnglish Literature (PhD)Why pursue a doctorate in English? Key resourcesDegree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements 
                
            
                
					
                    Application process
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines 
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Funding
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty research interests
                
            
                
					
                    Student initiatives
                
            
                
					
                    Your professional future
                
            Contact usProgram detailsDoctorate (PhD)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424