http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/environmental-assessment.htmlThe Diploma is a course-based program that is directed towards individuals interested in developing their knowledge and skills in the environmental assessment field. It is also directed towards individuals presently working in this field who would like to upgrade their skills.The Diploma in Environmental Assessment has been designed to fulfill three objectives:The Diploma is directed towards individuals who hold an undergraduate degree and are interested in developing or enhancing their knowledge and skills in the environmental field. The program will be offered over two semesters (fall and winter). To meet the schedule of those in the work force, many courses will be offered in the evening.Learn more about the benefits of studying at Concordia.Requirements for the DiplomaCredits. A fully qualified candidate is required to complete a minimum of 30 credits as follows:Admissions Requirements. A Bachelor’s degree in an appropriate discipline in Arts or Science is required. Students who lack appropriate Ecology or Geographic Information Systems preparation are required to take preparatory courses such as BIOL 205, Introduction to Sustainability; a 300-level physical geography course; or GEOG 363, Geographic Information Systems.Proficiency in English. Any student applying from outside Canada whose first language is other than English must demonstrate proficiency in the English language by writing the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) and obtaining a minimum score of 95 on the TOEFL iBT or 587 on TOEFL PBT or the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) and obtaining a minimum score of 7.0.Find out about preparatory courses related to the degree.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Applications must be received by February 1st (September Admission). There is no winter admission for the program. Incomplete applications will not be considered.Applicants must complete the on line Graduate Admission Application and submit supporting documents to the Graduate Admissions Application Centre:Concordia University, Graduate Application Centre
 P.O. Box 2002, Station H
 Montreal, Quebec
 Canada H3G 2V4
Each application must include:For more information, please contact the Graduate Program Assistant in the Department of Geography, Planning and Environment.Students registered in the Diploma in Environmental Assessment (DEA) are permitted to apply to the MEnv if they maintain a GPA of 3.3/4.3, have completed all compulsory courses and at least 6 credits of electives courses. The student will be withdrawn from the DEA and all their courses with grades of B or better will be transferred to the MEnv. The Graduate Committee of the Department will be responsible for the admissions transfer from the DEA to the MEnv.Email: Maeanne.Burridge@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2051Location: 
 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W., H 1255-21
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 1M8 Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityEnvironmental Assessment (DEA)Key resourcesProgram requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty research interests
                
            
                
					
                    Application procedures
                
            
                
					
                    Transferring from the DEA to the MEnv
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a Diploma in Enivronmental Assessment?Program detailsGraduate Diploma (GrDip)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424