http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/calendar/current/fasc/exci.htmlAdmission Requirements. A research MSc in science subjects (e.g., Exercise Science, Kinesiology, Physiology, Biology, Chemistry and Biochemistry, Psychology, or Physics) from a recognized university is required to be admitted to the PhD program. Applicant selection is based on a superior academic record at the undergraduate and master's level, an established publication record, a detailed and convincing statement of purpose that clearly describes their academic interest in the program, and strong letters of recommendation. In addition, admission is contingent on the availability of an appropriate faculty member in the Department to serve as supervisor. Before final admission, applicants are required to find a faculty member to supervise their work. Applicants with a BSc Honours and published results are also considered. Those applicants may be required to complete additional courses. Upon recommendation by full-time faculty members of the Department of Exercise Science, students registered in the MSc in Exercise Science at Concordia University who have completed 12 credits from the MSc program and who have shown themselves to be outstanding through performance in research may apply for permission to proceed directly to doctoral studies without submitting a master’s thesis (fast-tracking).Any student applying from outside of Canada whose first language is other than English must demonstrate proficiency in the English language by writing the TOEFL iBT and obtaining a minimum score of 95 (or 587 for TOEFL PBT).Requirements for the DegreeAcademic RegulationsCourses HEXS 801 Scientific Communication and Pedagogy in Health and Exercise Science (3 credits)
This course meets the needs of graduate students in developing adequate skills to communicate scientific information efficiently to different interest groups, such as grant adjudication committees, the general public, or undergraduate and graduate students in an academic setting. It serves in developing scientific communication skills by focusing on written and oral presentation skills, aimed at the scientists, students, or lay public. Faculty members from the department and selected guests provide information and applications on successful approaches to reach each of these groups. On the pedagogical side, it includes the development of course objectives and a course outline, along with preparing and presenting a lecture at the undergraduate level. It also involves presentation, discussion, and critical analysis of information from current scientific journal literature for scientists.HEXS 810 Advanced Topics in Health and Exercise Science: Physiology Module (3 credits)
This course examines the fundamental mechanisms and the functional control of specific systems of the body. A detailed analysis of the system, including the molecular and systemic aspects of the given system is addressed. This course focuses on recent research outcomes and new issues in molecular and systemic physiology. The course content varies depending on the specific system studied.HEXS 811 Advanced Topics in Health and Exercise Science: Intervention Module (3 credits)
This course examines concepts in the rehabilitation process from exercise adherence to tissue healing, and introduces students to various exercise protocols specific to the selected area of study. Students learn how to implement safe and effective rehabilitation protocols to address dysfunction and functional recovery. This course focuses on recent research outcomes and new issues in rehabilitation specific to prevention, assessment, and rehabilitation of injuries. The course content varies depending on the area of rehabilitation.HEXS 812 Advanced Topics in Health and Exercise Science: Population Health Module (3 credits)
This course surveys the health-related aspects of exercise, physical activity, and physical fitness from a population health perspective. Topics include current debates in biomedical ethics, health policy, as well as, methods and concepts in behavioural and environmental determinants of activity and fitness.HEXS 820 Special Topics in Health and Exercise Science (3 credits)
This course provides students with flexibility to address a specific area of specialization in Health and Exercise Science. This can be a reading course organized by the supervisor, a course chosen from the list of Advanced Topics courses, or a similar-level course from another department or institution, while being related to a specialization in Health and Exercise Science. The course is chosen in consultation with the student's supervisory committee. The course can be internal or external, and provides students with the capacity to specialize even further in relation to their research project.HEXS 850 Comprehensive Exam in Health and Exercise Science (6 credits)
The comprehensive exam is given by an examination committee composed of selected faculty members, at the end of the first year of study. The committee includes the supervisor and three additional faculty members with varied expertise related to the thesis topic. The examination committee identifies selected readings for the student. The student is expected to prepare for both a written and an oral examination. The body of knowledge for the comprehensive examination is defined by the committee in the form of advanced book chapters and other scientific readings. The written exam comes first, composed of five (5) questions asked by the committee, in the form of argumentative essays written in the span of two weeks; following a satisfactory evaluation of this work, the student is convened to the oral part, comprising a series of questions coming from the panel concerning the written answers or additional aspects coming from the readings. The student has to successfully pass the comprehensive examination in order to progress to the proposal, usually the following term. The course is graded on a pass/fail basis. HEXS 851 Research Proposal in Health and Exercise Science (3 credits)
Prerequisite: HEXS 850.
Students are required to write a research proposal describing a series of projects leading to the production of new knowledge from hypothesis-driven data acquisition and experimental inquiry. A supervisory committee including the supervisor and three additional faculty members (often the same as the comprehensive examination) with varied expertise related to the thesis topic is formed to guide the student with the production of the proposal. The proposal is presented in written form to the committee, and in oral form to the committee and department. The course is graded on a pass/fail basis.HEXS 890 Research and Thesis in Health and Exercise Science (69 credits) TopAdmission Requirements. The admission requirement is a BSc or equivalent degree in Exercise Science or related field of study. Applicants are selected on the basis of past academic record, letters of recommendation, relevance of proposed research to the expertise of the department, and TOEFL scores (minimum TOEFL iBT, 100; TOEFL PBT, 600). Enrolment in the Master’s program is limited in part by the availability of research supervisors.If a core deficiency exists in the student’s previous undergraduate background, otherwise qualified candidates may be required to take up to 12 undergraduate credits.There are no prerequisite certification requirements for Clinical Exercise Physiology. Students applying for the Athletic Therapy option should have or be preparing to acquire CATA certification. While not required, CATA certification is an asset for acceptance into the program.Requirements for the DegreeAcademic RegulationsCoursesFor the MSc program, every student must complete the following coursesEXCI 610 – Statistics and Research Design (3 credits)
EXCI 612 – Laboratory Techniques (3 credits)
EXCI 624 – Special Topics Seminar (3 credits)
EXCI 626 – Thesis Proposal (3 credits)
EXCI 680 – Thesis (Athletic Therapy) (33 credits)
OR
EXCI 690 – Thesis (Clinical Exercise Physiology) (33 credits)Master of/Magisteriate in Science (Exercise Science) (45 credits)Year I
Fall (6 credits) EXCI 6103, 6243
Winter (6 credits) EXCI 6123, 6263
Year II
33 credits EXCI 68033 or EXCI 69033EXCI 610 Statistics and Research Design (3 credits)This course provides students with a background in statistics and experimental design. Students are exposed to a variety of experimental designs applicable to the exercise sciences. The course covers the application of statistical concepts in consideration of specific experimental design methods. A number of parametric and non-parametric statistics are introduced for hypothesis testing, with the opportunity to apply relevant knowledge using various statistical software packages.EXCI 612 Laboratory Techniques (3 credits)
The course provides a theoretical awareness of measurement principles and offers practical experience in applying techniques common to advanced research methodologies in exercise science. The potential topics to be covered are geared towards the requirements of the individual in the areas of exercise physiology and athletic therapy. These may include such topics as data acquisition and analysis, electromyography, blood flow methodologies, spectrophotometry, pulmonary gas exchange, motion analysis, and tissue histochemistry.EXCI 624 Special Topics Seminar (3 credits)
This course is designed to meet the special needs of graduate students in the exercise science areas of concentration specific to athletic therapy and clinical exercise physiology. Topics vary within the domain to account for investigation of current and developing theories. The course involves presentation, discussion, and critical analysis of information from current scientific journal literature.EXCI 626 Thesis Proposal (3 credits)
This course provides students with the opportunity to choose a research topic and formulate a research proposal under the supervision of a thesis advisor. The proposal should include a literature review, rationale, hypothesis, and methodology including the planned research design and data analysis. Students are required to present a seminar in the Department on their research prior to the presentation of their proposal to the thesis advisory committee.EXCI 680 Thesis (Athletic Therapy) (33 credits)
Students are required to demonstrate their ability to carry out independent research which reflects a scientific approach. The thesis will be examined by the students advisory committee before being accepted by the Department. In addition, an oral examination will be conducted before a committee of the department to test the students ability to defend the thesis.EXCI 690 Thesis (Clinical Exercise Physiology) (33 credits)
Students are required to demonstrate their ability to carry out independent research which reflects a scientific approach. The thesis will be examined by the students advisory committee before being accepted by the Department. In addition, an oral examination will be conducted before a committee of the department to test the students ability to defend the thesis.EXCI 698 Selected Topics in Exercise Science (3 credits)
This course explores themes within the area of Exercise Science.Top* Subject to MEES approval© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
Exercise SciencePrograms
Doctor of/Doctorate in Philosophy (Health and Exercise Science) *
Master of/Magisteriate in Science (Exercise Science)Department of Exercise Science WebsiteConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424