http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/exercise-science-msc.htmlResearch in Exercise Science is booming. Researchers in the department are asking important fundamental and clinical questions, from how the body produces new muscle proteins to face challenges to how stress can influence the cardiovascular system. In continuation with the strengths of our undergraduate programs, our research agenda is strong in basic mechanistic sciences to understand how the body works, in the clinical areas of injury prevention and care, and in the chronic care of certain diseases through exercise.Our MSc program emphasizes research. There are few courses and all courses focus on research. For an overview of the program, please download our presentation on the MSc in Exercise Science at Concordia.Requirements for the DegreeAdmission Requirements. The admission requirement is a BSc or equivalent degree in Exercise Science or related field of study. Applicants are selected on the basis of past academic record, letters of recommendation, relevance of proposed research to the expertise of the department, and TOEFL scores (minimum TOEFL iBT, 100; TOEFL PBT, 600). Enrolment in the Master’s program is limited in part by the availability of research supervisors.If a core deficiency exists in the student’s previous undergraduate background, otherwise qualified candidates may be required to take up to 12 undergraduate credits.There are no prerequisite certification requirements for Clinical Exercise Physiology. Students applying for the Athletic Therapy option should have or be preparing to acquire CATA certification. While not required, CATA certification is an asset for acceptance into the program.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.CoursesFor the MSc program, every student must complete the following coursesEXCI 610 – Statistics and Research Design (3 credits)
EXCI 612 – Laboratory Techniques (3 credits)
EXCI 624 – Special Topics Seminar (3 credits)
EXCI 626 – Thesis Proposal (3 credits)
EXCI 680 – Thesis (Athletic Therapy) (33 credits)
OR
EXCI 690 – Thesis (Clinical Exercise Physiology) (33 credits)Master of/Magisteriate in Science (Exercise Science) (45 credits)Year I
Fall (6 credits) EXCI 6103, 6243
Winter (6 credits) EXCI 6123, 6263
Year II
33 credits EXCI 68033 or EXCI 69033Course descriptionsEXCI 610 Statistics and Research Design (3 credits)This course provides students with a background in statistics and experimental design. Students are exposed to a variety of experimental designs applicable to the exercise sciences. The course covers the application of statistical concepts in consideration of specific experimental design methods. A number of parametric and non-parametric statistics are introduced for hypothesis testing, with the opportunity to apply relevant knowledge using various statistical software packages.EXCI 612 Laboratory Techniques (3 credits)
The course provides a theoretical awareness of measurement principles and offers practical experience in applying techniques common to advanced research methodologies in exercise science. The potential topics to be covered are geared towards the requirements of the individual in the areas of exercise physiology and athletic therapy. These may include such topics as data acquisition and analysis, electromyography, blood flow methodologies, spectrophotometry, pulmonary gas exchange, motion analysis, and tissue histochemistry.EXCI 624 Special Topics Seminar (3 credits)
This course is designed to meet the special needs of graduate students in the exercise science areas of concentration specific to athletic therapy and clinical exercise physiology. Topics vary within the domain to account for investigation of current and developing theories. The course involves presentation, discussion, and critical analysis of information from current scientific journal literature.EXCI 626 Thesis Proposal (3 credits)
This course provides students with the opportunity to choose a research topic and formulate a research proposal under the supervision of a thesis advisor. The proposal should include a literature review, rationale, hypothesis, and methodology including the planned research design and data analysis. Students are required to present a seminar in the Department on their research prior to the presentation of their proposal to the thesis advisory committee.EXCI 680 Thesis (Athletic Therapy) (33 credits)
Students are required to demonstrate their ability to carry out independent research which reflects a scientific approach. The thesis will be examined by the students advisory committee before being accepted by the Department. In addition, an oral examination will be conducted before a committee of the department to test the students ability to defend the thesis.EXCI 690 Thesis (Clinical Exercise Physiology) (33 credits)
Students are required to demonstrate their ability to carry out independent research which reflects a scientific approach. The thesis will be examined by the students advisory committee before being accepted by the Department. In addition, an oral examination will be conducted before a committee of the department to test the students ability to defend the thesis.EXCI 698 Selected Topics in Exercise Science (3 credits)
This course explores themes within the area of Exercise Science.Top1- Application Form (signed) and Fee2 -Curriculum vitae3- One Letter of Reference OR Academic Assessment Forms4- Exercise Science Entrance Form5- Official transcripts: graduate and undergraduate- For all previous university studies (complete and incomplete). If the transcript is in a language other than English or French, official translations are required along with the original language transcripts.6 -Proof of Canadian citizenship, Permanent Resident status, or Refugee status- Legible photocopy of either a Canadian birth certificate or a Canadian citizenship card (both sides) or Permanent Resident Paper or Permanent Resident card (both sides)7- Language Proficiency (if required) TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language) OR IELTS (International English Language Testing System)Research in the department probes functional mechanisms from the molecular level to whole systems. Topics include:For more examples of research in the department, please consult the current projects by graduate students.The PERFORM Centre offers research opportunities, teaching, and training for faculty and students, commmunitiy health programs, and a full service athletic therapy clinic.The ESSA student learning lab is a fully-equipped laboratory where students can develop their practical skills and receive advice from students who are more advanced in the programs.Email: Liz.Fradette@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 3319Location: 
 7141 Sherbrooke Street West, SP 165.07
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H4B 1R6Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityExercise Science (MSc)Key resourcesDegree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Application Requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Research
                
            
                
					
                    Facilities
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a Master's in exercise science?Program detailsMaster of Science (MSc)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424