http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/sdbi/about/faculty-staff.htmlIn addition to our great students, many different people are involved in SdBI life, with different roles, expertise and responsibilitiesPart-time facultyThere are many part-time faculty members and all have contributed and continue to contribute to the intellectual life of the SdBI. The SdBI has a number part-time faculty members on its 10-19 list although not all of them teach in any given year (listed below are those who have taught a WSDB course in the last 3 years).Fellows are professors from another department within Concordia University who are connected to the SdBI life. They help out on various SdBI committees, and provide support and guidance for both students and faculty committed to feminist issues at Concordia University.(First Coordinator of Women’s Studies 1974-75)(SdBI first Principal 1978-83)(SdBI first Vice-Principal in 1978)(SdBI Principal 1986-89, 1990-91) (SdBI Interim Principal 1989-90)Send your cover letter and curriculum vitae to Linda.Bowes@concordia.caResearch Associates are individuals who are conducting research on feminist issues and who have an official link to the Simone de Beauvoir Institute. They are part-time teaching faculty, graduate students, independent scholars or professors from other universities interested in exchanging about research or conducting research in collaboration with SdBI members.Research Associates meet regularly to exchange ideas, notably in seminars or Feminist Café events. End of terms are indicated in parenthesis.
Abla, Farida.  Has a background in Translation & Languages (MFA, B.A., CELTA & TESOL) and a vast experience in teaching ESL.  She works on the Diasporas of Lebanese and Iranian women who wrote autobiographies. She deconstructs their works in order to question and analyze the voices of women belonging to the Lebanese and Iranian Diasporas in North America. She also examines transnational feminism, antiracism theories, and the effects of the English language within the Diasporas literature and their portrayal in media. She also explores the social, economic, political and religious circumstances these women explored and portrayed in their memoirs.Research Keywords: Transnational Feminism Cultural Studies, Iranian & Lebanese Women Diaspora & AutobiographiesContact: Farida Abla (5/31/2017)Aprahamian, Sima. Dr. Aprahamian holds a Doctoral degree in anthropology granted at McGill University. She is currently working on the following projects.- A virtual museum of objects that have survived the Armenian Genocide and are in Canada and their stories;  Narratives of Displacement; Ottoman women's movement(s);  Her Doctoral Dissertation (based on fieldwork in the Beka’a valley of Lebanon, funded by SSHRC) was entitled The inhabitants of Haouch Moussa. She has been organizing several panels in academic conferences over the years on literary responses to genocide, feminist perspectives on genocide, as well as publishing and presenting papers on identity issues, gender, genocide.

Research Keywords: Feminist anthropology; feminist perspectives on Genocide; Gender/Race/Class/Sexuality; Identities; Literary criticismContact: Sima Aprahamian (5/31/2017)
Bukhari, Syeda. Syeda is a doctoral candidate at the Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies, Simon Fraser University, BC. With an extensive qualitative research experience, she has worked on projects dealing with settlement, integration and socio-economic challenges of immigrants, health challenges for immigrant seniors, issues faced by skilled women immigrants in Canada and so on.Her PhD thesis ‘Mapping the Terrain: South Asians and Ethnic Media in BC’ explores the South Asian ethnic media’s role, contribution, opportunities and challenges in the lived experiences of their audience. Syeda is also interested in health research concerning immigrants in Canada.

Research Keywords: South Asian Immigrants; Integration and Settlement Challenges; South Asian Ethnic Media; Health Research; Qualitative ResearchContact: Syeda Bukhari (5/31/2016)Chapman, Jean. Between 1984 and 2003, she was General Advisor to a First Nation in Northern Quebec which has Municipal status.  Her academic training is in is anthropology (at McGill, Montreal and JNU, Delhi) and peace studies (Bradford, UK) graduating from Bradford in 2008.  Integral to the dissertation was fieldwork undertaken in the K5 mine belt in western Cambodia.  Her expertise as a feminist researcher is grounded in activism in the women’s movement in India in the 1970s.  Areas of expertise are theorizing sexism, gender-sensitive research methods, neoliberalism in Cambodia, gendered climate change, brahmanical patriarchy, and violence against women.Research Keywords: Sexism, gendered climate change; brahmanical patriarchy; Indian families, where misogyny and misandry meet; mass killing in Cambodia; fieldwork in a Khmer minefield.Contact: Jean Chapman (5/31/2017)Chew, Dolores. Ph.D. at the University of Calcutta (History) – Hindu women and property rights in colonial law  (Bengal, India)
M.A., Concordia University (History) – Social reform and women in colonial Bengal
B.A., Concordia University (Asian Studies)

Anti-racist feminist engagement inform my teaching, activism and research.  Recent work appeared in DiGeorgio-Lutz, Gosbee, Women and Genocide—an anthology (Canadian Scholars’ Press, 2016);  Luther, et al, Resilience and Triumph. Immigrant Women Tell Their Stories. (Second Story, 2015); Canadian Woman Studies Reader, 2015; International Journal of Anglo-Indian Studies 15:1, 2015;  Montreal Serai, 2014;  Boyd,  The Search for Lasting Peace, Critical Perspectives on Gender-Responsive Human Security (Ashgate, 2014).

Reseaerch Keywords:  women and genocide (Gujarat, India); gender representations & multiraciality (Anglo-Indians – colonial and post-colonial); feminism and intersectionality (Québec & Canada);Contact: Dolores Chew (5/31/2017)Doerr, Karin.   Has a PhD in German literature and language which she has taught for 35 years. In addition, she taught German history and culture and spent many years researching the history and language of Germany’s National Socialist period. This led her to Holocaust survivors whose experiences she recorded and analysed.  She became interested in the poetic expression of pain and suffering. Further, she investigated historical antisemitism occurring in society, culture and literature. She undertook numerous joint project with historians, sociologists and experts in Jewish studies. I am presently interested in Canadian poetry, particularly by women, and does volunteer work at a senior centre.  Her latest research deals with the life of the revolutionary Rosa Luxemburg within a sociological-political context.  

Research Keywords:  The revolutionary Rosa Luxemburg; German Holocaust poetry; Canadian poetry by women; Women in senior centresContact: Karin Doerr  (5/31/2017)Lippman, Abby. As a feminist academic and activist for almost four decades, she does research, writing, speaking, supervising, teaching, and community-based work centred primarily on social justice  and policy issues related to reprogenetic technologies (e.g., assisted reproduction, vaccinations, breast cancer, constructions of ignorance and of knowledge) as well as on general issues of health and well-being as experienced by women living with disabilities and others who are marginalized.  

Research Keywords:  Feminist critiques related to the politics of health;  applications  and uses of genetic and reproductive technologies;  HPV vaccination policies and practices; “Epistemicides” and how knowledges are created ond erased/forgotten/discounted, etc. Contact: Abby Lippman (5/31/2017)O'Grady, Kathleen. She is currently the Managing Editor of EvidenceNetwork.ca, a CIHR-funded project to bridge communication between health policy researchers and journalists.  Prior to this, Editor of Network, the magazine on Canadian women’s health.  She writes extensively on the relationship between public policy and media, as well as the lived experiences of parenting a child with autism.   Academic background in feminist theory and methodology, particularly contemporary Continental philosophy.  

Research Keywords:  Canadian health policy; autism – both as they relate to Canadian girls and women.  Also, have written extensively on media as well as the theoretical work of Julia Kristeva.Contact: Kathleen O'Grady (5/31/2017)Zhang, Tracy. Tracy Zhang is currently a post-doctoral scholar in Film and Media at Queen’s University. Tracy received her doctorate from the School of Communication at Simon Fraser University. In 2012-2014, she received a FQRSC postdoctoral fellowship in the Department of Geography, Planning, and Environment at Concordia University. In 2014, she was a post-doctoral scholar at the Montreal Centre for International Studies. She was also a visiting scholar of the McGill Institute of Gender, Sexuality, and Feminist Studies. Her research is situated in the fields of feminist political economy and cultural studies, focusing specifically on how the entangled politics of gender, race, and post-colonial nationalism shape and are shaped by labour processes in diverse contexts of cultural production.Research Keywords: transnational circus labor, performance and politics, the modern history of Chinese popular entertainment, global creative industriesContact: Tracy Zhang (5/31/2017)To contact other Research Associates, please click on their link below:Dorothy Geller (5/31/2018)Tamara Amoroso Gonçalves (5/31/2017)Dana Hearne (5/31/2017)
Elizabeth J. Meyer (5/31/2017)Pauline McKenzie Aucoin (5/31/2017)Luisa Molino (5/31/2017)Esmeralda Thornhill (5/31/2017)Haifa Tlili (5/31/2017) 
  Please note that the Coordinating Committee is currently working on the conditions and guidelines associated to membership and renewed membership in the Simone de Beauvoir Institute as a Research Associate. As a consequence, the Research Associate program is currently suspended and we are not accepting new requests for the Research Associate status. Those who are currently a Research Associate and are intent in renewing their status in June 2015 are welcomed to re-apply for a one-year term (simply fill out this R.A. request form, save it in PDF format and forward it to Linda Bowes along with your CV. As soon as the new process and guidelines will be established (most likely in late Fall 2015), we will post them here.To get library privileges, please fill in this form and bring it to the Institute.
The Institute could not flourish were it not for the dedication and hard work of our staff! Here are those whose work facilitates the teaching, research and outreach at the SdBI.Responsible for SdBI programme coordination and student and faculty files, meets with students to provide academic advisingBelinda Bowes
514-848-2424 ext. 2370
linda.bowes@concordia.caJulia Dyck
514-848-2424 ext. 2373
Sdbi.eventscoordinator@concordia.caResponsible for the functioning of Simone’s Library, advises students for papers and researchIsabelle Lamoureux
514-848-2424 ext. 2377
sdbi.readingroom@gmail.com© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFaculty and staffSimone de Beauvoir Institute
            
                Simone de Beauvoir Institute
            Full-time facultyFellowsHonorary Lifetime FellowsGada Mahrouse
                        
    
        
            Chantal Maillé
                        
    
        
            Kimberley Manning
                        
    
        
            Viviane Namaste
                        
    
        
            Geneviève Rail
                        
    
        
            Alexander Antonopoulos
                        
    
        
            Michiko Aramaki
                        
    
        
            Jennifer Clamen
                        
    
        
            Adeela Arshad-Ayaz
                        
    
        
            Rachel Berger
                        
    
        
            Rosemary-Claire Collard
                        
    
        
            Sandra L. Curtis
                        
    
        
            Linda Kay
                        
    
        
            Lorna Roth
                        
    
        
            Rosemarie Schade
                        
    To Become a FellowConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Karen Herland
 Elma Moses
 Joanne Muzak
 Magdalena Olszanowski
Candis Steenbergen
Susan Hoecker-DrysdaleMaïr VerthuyKatherine E. WatersArpi HamalianElizabeth HenrikTo Become a Research AssociateLibrary privilegesProgram Secretary and Academic AdvisorCommunications and Events Coordinator
Documentalists at Simone's Library