http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/encs/info-systems-eng/students/faq.html TOPThe deadlines are as follows:TOPThe application deadlines for international students are as follows:TOPWhen you sign up to Connect2 Concordia, the application number that they provide you with "Application Number.  This is not to be confused with your CONCORDIA ID NUMBER.  To get your ID, once you have submitted your online application and paid your application fee of $100 with a valid credit card, you will receive a confirmation email with a 8 digit student ID number.TOPPlease visit Concordia admissions for complete details.TOPThe admission requirement for the above program is a Bachelor degree in Engineering or Computer Science, with a cumulative GPA of at least 3.00 or equivalent.  Students applying to the Information Systems Security program must also have a solid knowledge of software engineering/development.Our basic requirements for admission into a Master’s degree or a Graduate Certificate program are:TOPTo apply to the Master programs in Information Systems Security (ISS) or Quality Systems Engineering (QSE), you will need to attach the following documents:TOPPlease find below the list of documents that you need to submit with your application:TOPYes. The application process requires 3 recommendation letters.TOPIt is not required of you to provide a Merit of certification.TOPYou may still send in your TOEFL score after the February 15th deadline. As soon as you get your score, upload it and send it to the Admissions Office. As long as they have a copy until the TOEFL center sends the official one to us.The University's TOEFL number is 0956-00. The TOEFL center usually sends us a copy of your score.TOPThe departments do not have access to look into your application process. Only the Admissions Office has access to this.  TOPYou may upload your copies of your transcripts and degree certificates; however we still need the original copies. If you are unable to get the original copies you will then need to have your copies notarized.TOPClass division is a grading system used throughout many countries including Middle Eastern countries, India, Pakistan, Nigeria, Bangladesh, Parts of Canada & England.  Please disregard if not pertinent to your application.TOPThe three admission sessions for the Master's degree are Fall, Winter and Summer sessions.  Admission into Graduate Certificate programs is every Fall session.TOPMinimum of 2 yearsThe minimum duration of the Master’s program is two years or six semesters (Summer [May- August], Fall [September-December] & Winter [January-April]). As for the Graduate certificate, it is a program that may be completed in one year (Fall [September-December] & Winter [January-April]).TOPYour original letter of admission will be sent to you by mail. The Office of the Registrar is the department that sends the original letters of admissions to the students.TOPThe Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) is a department within the Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science at Concordia University.  Individuals graduating from our programs will obtain a Master in Engineering (course option) or a Master of Applied Science in Engineering (for thesis students) from Concordia University.TOPPlease see link below: You are required to fill out this form and pay a fee $25.00. Please send both the form and the payment to:Graduate Program Assistant
CIISE – Concordia University
1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. West, Room EV 7.640
Montreal, Quebec
H3G 1M8Deferral Form:International students can make a payment by international wire or direct transfer of funds. Please make sure that the student's name and I.D. number is included on all wire transfer documents.International Wire Transfer Payment:U.S. and International students are able to log on to their student portal to use Concordia University's International Wire Payment service offered through Western Union.  Western Union allows U.S. and International students to pay in the currency of their choice, while providing a simple and reliable way of initiating payments electronically.Access this service through the student portal (www.MyConcordia.ca).  Once you are logged in, navigate to: My Student Centre >> Tuition & Fees - International Wire Transfer.
TOPYou will need to re-apply on-line and send another statement of purpose with your updated C.V. To transfer from one program into another one within the same department (ex: thesis to course option or vice versa), students are required to complete a hard copy application only (found at our reception area, EV7.640), not register on line.For example, if a student has completed 5 semesters of study and wants to transfer to another program within the Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science, s/he will still be required to pay another 6 full semesters in the new program of study.  However, students are allowed to change programs within their current department of study. To transfer from one department to another department, the student needs to apply on-line and then register for courses. Then, the student should inform the Graduate Program Assistant via email that they are transferring. If the student is transferring into the M.A.Sc. program then s/he should make sure a thesis supervisor has agreed to supervise you prior to transferring.  Concordia University may transfer up to 5 courses (20 credits), but only if the marks are B and higher.  Concordia University will only transfer credits, not grades.For students coming from another university, Concordia University may transfer up to 12 credits.TOPTuition fees can obtained by going to the following website linksTOPThere is no full funding per se.  However, please note that full-time students are eligible to apply for University scholarships.  These competitions are open to all full-time students. Please find the link below for more information concerning Financial aid. 
You may also wish to consult the International student office website for more information. 
You may also wish to talk to your thesis supervisor for funding opportunities.TOPTeaching Assistant and Research Assistant positions are not guaranteed. You will need to apply for available TA positions each semester.  You may discuss the possibility of RA funding with your thesis supervisor.  TOPThe CO-OP option does not cover the expenses of the program and living expenses. The company will pay you for the duration of your work term. There is a $150 CDN fee to be in the CO-OP program. Please visit the Institute for Co-operative Education.For employment on campus, you may find more information from Career and planning services (CAPS).You may apply for scholarships & awards each semester.  However there are competitions for these awards. Please consult the Financial Aid & Awards Office.The Institute for Co-operative Education Program is open to thesis program students.  It is the same as a regular thesis program, with work study components.  Once you have completed 4 out of 5 courses you can come to see the Graduate Program Assistant to apply for the Co-op program. A minimum GPA of 3.2 is required to enter this program.  The work study component is usually two terms, depending on the employer.TOPThe difference between the M.A.Sc (Thesis option) and M.Eng. (Course option) is the THESIS component.  Students enrolled in the thesis program must carry out research in a certain topic and defend their theses at the end of their program.TOPInternational Students cannot apply for Independent student status because they will not be allowed to apply for a student Visa, unless they apply to a specific program.TOPTo edit your student profile, i.e. change of address, email, etc.; go to your student portal in the Concordia website: www.myconcordia.ca/TOPLeaves are granted only to students in good academic standing (CGPA>3.00).Students cannot be on Leave in terms where a course with a DISC notation appears.Types of Leaves & Fees:TOPPlease print out and complete the registration form in full: I.D., Program, courses (INSE XXXX/4 WW), signature, and email address.Student may register for a maximum of 3 courses per semester.M.A.Sc. Students: Courses must be approved by your Supervisor PRIOR to registration.
TOPBefore registration: a student must obtain written consent of a faculty member who will act as a supervisor for the 5-credit project.Register for the course: ENGR 6991Project Report Requirements:The project may consist of:Due date: a report is due on the last day of classes of the term in which a student is registered in ENGR 6991.A copy of the report must be attached to the grade submission form by your project supervisor.TOPRegister for the course:
Requirements:CIISE students wishing to take the 1-credit seminar course INSE 6961 shall attend a minimum of 8 seminars during the Fall and Winter semesters, and submit a total of 3 reports of 3 pages each on 3 seminars along with all the 8 signed seminar attendance forms.  These seminars also include MASc and PhD thesis defences. Please check your email regularly for seminar announcements. Please note that the deadline is the last day of classes of the term in which a student is registered in INSE 6961 after attending all the required 8 seminars.You must attend seminars in both terms because we do not offer 8 seminars in one term.  Please note that we do not offer seminars in the summer.TOPYou shall submit 4 or 5 copies of your thesis (without co-supervisor = 4 copies; with co-supervisor = 5 copies) by March 18  for Spring Convocation and by August 18  for Fall Convocation:   The first submission of thesis shall be printed on regular paper and submitted in 4 or 5 boxes. You can purchase these boxes from Concordia's bookstore (~85 cents each box).You must submit the final version of your thesis electronically (i.e. all modifications completed) by April 15 for Spring Convocation and by September 15 for Fall Convocation.The electronic submission must be in PDF/a format (archival PDF). For information on how to submit theses, students must log on to Spectrum  using their portal name and ID. Follow instructions using the HELP button. Students will be provided with detailed instructions.Students must also submit one paper copy of their thesis to the Thesis Office. This copy will not be returned to the student. The Thesis Office will send this copy for microfilming.TOPStudents need to go to LB-185 (Birks) to acquire the letter.TOP© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFrequently asked questionsConcordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE)
            
                Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE)
            for Graduate studentsAcademic StandingApplication Deadlines - Canadians and Permanent ResidentsApplication Deadlines - International StudentsStudent I.D. NumberApplication Payment MethodAcademic Requirements for ApplicationOn-line Application Form – Attachment of Documents For CIISERecommendation Letters / Letters of ReferenceMerit CertificationTOEFLConnect2.concordia Portal AccessGrades for AdmissionsClass DivisionBeginning the ProgramDuration of Master’s ProgramsLetter of AcceptanceConcordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE)Deferral of Acceptance for Admission to the ProgramTransfersTuition CostsFunding for Graduate StudentsTeaching Assistant and Research Assistant PositionsCO-OPMaster of Engineering (M.Eng.) and Master of Applied Science (M.A.Sc)Independent StudentsChange of AddressLeaves of AbsenceRegistration5-credit ProjectSeminar CourseThesis ProceduresCompletion of Studies Letter of AttestationTransfer to Other Program or Degree - Prospective StudentsTransfer to another program in the same department - Current StudentsTransfer from One Department to Another Department – Current StudentsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424C RuleF RuleGPA Graduation RequirementWhat are the deadlines to apply to the program for permanent residents and Canadians?What is the deadline for international student applications to apply to Quality Systems Engineering (QSE) and Information Systems Security (ISS) programs?Regarding student ID; I spotted an "Application Number" on top of my online application form, does it mean student ID?How do I pay the application fees?I was wondering what the educational requirement was for your Master’s programs? Must one have a bachelor's of engineering or computer science?I am interested in a Master’s program in the area of Information Systems Security. I have been looking at the M.Eng. and M.A.Sc. information systems security programs. I was unable to see the requirements.  What are they?For my on-line application form, it allows me to attach the following documents.  Can you tell me which one is mandatory for a master's program in CIISE?What documents do I need to submit with my application?Does the application process require recommendation letters?I am applying to the Master of Engineering (M.Eng.) program in Quality Systems Engineering, should students provide a “Merit certification”?I'm applying for the Fall session, however, my TOEFL score will not be ready before the application deadline (February 15 for International students). I'm concerned about this, but I'm really interested in applying for Fall.  Is there something that can be done?What is the University’s TOEFL ID number and how would you like the score to be reported?I am applying to Concordia University for the M.Eng. program in Information Systems Security.   I have doubts regarding the application process in the connect2.concordia portal.The University where I am currently doing my final year in Engineering does not issue official grade sheets/ transcripts of engineering. These can only be requested in the following situations:  misplacing them, lodging a formal police complaint or reporting in a national newspaper. Can Concordia University accept photocopies attested by the Director of my Engineering college?What does “class division” mean, found in the ENCS assessment form in the on-line admission application?When can I enter the master’s program?Is the Master’s program a one year or a two year program?What is the duration of the Master’s programs?I would like to know the status of my admission letter, whether it has been sent or not.I am applying for the M. Eng. program at CIISE as an international student. Would you please verify whether the CIISE is an independent institute in collaboration with Concordia University or it belongs individually to Concordia as a Faculty or College member?I have applied to another department in the Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science. Now, I want to transfer my application to the M.A.Sc. in Information Systems Security in CIISE. Please let me know what the process is.What is the procedure to transfer from one program to another one within the same department?What is the procedure to transfer from one department to another?How much does it cost to join your programs?I have been granted admission to the Graduate program (Master of Applied Science) in Information Systems Security at Concordia University, as a full-time student for the Fall term beginning September. I would like to know if the Department can grant me the funding because I have heard that full time students can get full funding.How much of my expenses will being a TA or an RA cover per year?Regarding the CO-OP option (M.A.Sc.), does the work period cover the expenses of the program including basic living costs?What are my options for covering my expenses while studying? Does admission provide some form of financial income?  What are the requirements for the Co-op program?What is the difference between the M.Eng. and the M.A.Sc programs?Can an International Student apply as an independent student?My address in the online system is incorrect.  How do I edit this?
How many seminars do I need to attend for the 1-credit seminar course?
Can I attend seminars for the 1-credit seminar course in Winter 2011 and register and attend remaining seminars in Fall 2011? Or do I have to attend seminars in the two consecutive semesters?How to submit my thesis prior to defence?  
How to submit my final thesis after defence?    I have completed my studies. Where do I get a letter attesting to this?