http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/cinema/programs/film-studies/film-studies-ma.htmlCritical approaches to cinema extend far beyond the limits of the silver screen. The relationship between the viewer and the moving image has never been more complicated, with practices like gaming and online videos altering our understanding of the medium’s role in society. Engaging with the complexities of current moving image culture, and the practices of active engagement around objects as diverse as urban screens, transnational media, Japanese anime, and film festivals, we nurture students’ ability to develop dynamic social critiques of film and its global ubiquity.The MA in Film Studies provides you with a stimulating environment to examine film as a political, social, cultural and artistic medium. Students benefit from the School’s proximity to Montreal’s dynamic film, new media and visual arts communities. Montreal is a vibrant cultural metropolis with an exceptional range of film venues and museums, galleries and artist-run centres.Develop connections with a dynamic group of students as you discover areas of interest that coincide with the research strengths of our internationally renowned faculty, including five research chairs. You’ll also benefit from some of the best research labs in Canada that bring together a network of academics from a multitude of disciplines and institutions.For students interested in developing a thesis (option A), the Graduate Program Director will ensure that a potential supervisor exists within the faculty for the research area in question. The onus is on the student, however, to secure a member of the faculty to supervise the thesis during their studies.Consult the graduate calendar for complete degree requirements.Admission Requirements. Incoming students will be expected to have a degree in film studies with a minimum B average (GPA 3.00) in their undergraduate degree. Applicants may be requested to attend an interview with the graduate committee. All applicants will be required to submit an example of their writing on cinema, and a letter of intent.Some applicants who have undergraduate degrees in other programs will also be considered. These students must have a strong interest in cinema from the perspective of other disciplines such as art history, film production, communications, English, French, sociology, philosophy, history or political science. Students applying from non-film studies programs must demonstrate to the committee that they have a basic knowledge of core film studies materials. Qualified applicants lacking prerequisite courses may be required to take up to 12 undergraduate credits (or the equivalent, to be approved by the Department’s Graduate Studies Committee) in addition to the regular graduate program.Please review the department application requirements before applying online. Read the how-to guide for general application procedures.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Our diverse course curriculum offers opportunities for the advanced study of film by incorporating multidisciplinary materials from fields as varied as gender studies, archival science and philosophy. Visit the department website for a current list of course offerings.Students may receive practicum credits for work at film institutions (e.g. festivals, archives), periodicals, educational or production establishments.The program offers fellowships ranging from $2,000 to $20,000 per year, as well as Teaching Assistantships and Research Assistantships to incoming students on competitive basis.Please also consult the department’s  and Concordia’s graduate funding page and Financial Aid and Awards.Choose your supervisor from amongst leading researchers. Speak to the graduate program director to discuss the process of selecting a supervisor.Faculty interests include:The Centre for Digital Arts and the Moving Image Resource Centre are equipped with the latest audio-visual equipment, computer labs and editing, and are staffed with technical experts who will help you realize your ideas. You’ll have access to:Read more about our cinema facilities.Graduate students have access to various other research centres, including the Hexagram Centre for Research-Creation in Media Arts and Technologies as well as the Milieux Institute for Arts, Culture and TechnologyReview an inspiring list of thesis topics.The vibrant culture of the program includes opportunities for students to get involved in Concordia-based film journals, research groups, yearly conferences and active reading groups.Many of our alumni have gone on to successful careers in the media and cultural industries, through their work in film, television, and the arts. Practicum courses facilitate careers in the areas of programming and exhibition, curatorial work, arts journalism, and teaching at all levels. Graduates are also qualified to pursue film studies at the doctoral level. Concordia has an excellent track record in placing graduates in the best PhD programs in film and media studies in Canada and the United States.© Concordia UniversityMel Hoppenheim School of CinemaConcordia UniversityFilm Studies (MA)Mel Hoppenheim School of Cinema
            
                Mel Hoppenheim School of Cinema
            Key resourcesRelated linksJoin the conversationProgram options and degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Funding
                
            
                
					
                    Finding your advisors
                
            
                
					
                    Facilities
                
            
                
					
                    Emgering ideas – student projects
                
            
                
					
                    Student initiatives
                
            
                
					
                    Your professional futureWhy pursue a master's in film studies?Program detailsMaster of ArtsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424