http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/applied-human-sciences/programs/financial-support-and-awards.htmlFinancial support is available to undergraduate and graduate students at Concordia in various forms, including government financial aid, usually in the form of student loans and/or bursaries, university scholarships and bursary programs, on-campus work opportunities through the University Work Study Program, and corporate scholarship programs. Please note that:Please contact these offices for information on financial awards open to all Concordia students.Additional sources of financial support for undergraduate and graduate students in AHSC include:Graduate students in the department have two other potential sources for financial support:The A. Ross Seaman Scholarship for Leadership is available to certificate and undergraduate students in the department. The award is given in recognition of the values and commitment to community service represented by the life of A. Ross Seaman. Procedures:The leadership award will be given annually to up to 4 students who have completed more than 30 credits in the Human Relations, Leisure Sciences, Therapeutic Recreation, Community Service or Family Life Education programs. A student will be nominated for the award by a fellow student, faculty, or staff member.The award will be based upon the following criteria;The nominated student is asked to supply the pertinent information listed below as part of their nomination package:A completed nomination package and nomination form should be submitted to the AHSC Department Administrator in L-VE-223 no later than March 15.About A. Ross SeamanThis annual award is given in recognition of the values and commitment to community service represented by the life of Ross Seaman.His death in October 1987 represented a loss to countless people from many places where he expended his energies and warmth to help others to become the best they could be. Those who knew Ross best remember him for being on the leading edge of bringing the best possible resources to bear on the issues that engaged his energy ... camping, and leadership training, recreation leadership and community organization, particularly as it related to an aging population. One colleague refers to him as a cheerleader for the human race. He never ceased to marvel at the potential in every person he knew. This special quality, which he possessed and shared so generously, warrants a remembrance on our part.Ross' association with the Department of Applied Social Science started with its founding in 1963. He was a part-time faculty member and continued to teach until his retirement in 1984. At the time of his death he had become an integral part of the Leisure Studies Program. He was a professor, adviser and Program Director during his tenure with Leisure Studies. A well-respected teacher, he was best known for his willingness to give of himself to students and program needs alike.During his time with Leisure Studies he was instrumental in beginning the Concordia ELDERHOSTEL program. Along with his wife Marg, he was the host for the first 5 years of the program and a very active member of the ELDERHOSTEL committee. The Robert C. Rae Book Prize in Human Relations is awarded at convocation to the most outstanding graduating student in Human Relations. There is no nomination process for this award.The Randy B. Swedburg Medal in Leisure Sciences & Therapeutic Recreation is awarded at convocation to the most outstanding graduating student in Leisure Sciences or Therapeutic Recreation. There is no nomination process for this award.The Pauline Gross Award is awarded to the most outstanding graduating student in the Certificate in Community Service or the Certifcate in Family Life Education. There is no nomination process for this award. The award is presented during the annual certificate graduation ceremony held at the Department of Applied Human Sciences.© Concordia UniversityDepartment of Applied Human Sciences
Office L-VE-223
 1455 de Maisoneuve Blvd. West
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 1M8
7141 Sherbrooke St. West,
Office VE-223
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 2E9

See building mapConcordia UniversityFinancial Support and AwardsScholarly AwardsDepartment of Applied Human Sciences
            
                Department of Applied Human SciencesA. Ross Seaman Scholarship for Leadership 
                
            
                
					
                    Robert C. Rae Book Prize
                
            
                
					
                    Randy B. Swedburg Medal 
                
            
                
					
                    Pauline Gross AwardAdditional Support Available to All AHSC StudentsAdditional Support Available to Graduate StudentsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424