http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/co-op/finance.htmlThe Finance Co-op program was introduced in 1999. Thanks to strong student demand and the large number of employers interested in hiring our students, it is the fastest growing co-op in the faculty. The program’s primary objective is to provide students with the opportunity to apply what they have learned in the classroom to real-world situations, to observe the practices of a specific industry and of an individual organization, and to work with financial experts. The Co-op program also allows our school to build relationships with local businesses. 
Administrative Assistant, JMSB Co-op programs
Patricia Leduc
Phone: 514-848-2424 ext. 4117
Email: coop.jmsb@concordia.ca 

Academic Director - Finance
 Jay Mannadiar
Phone: 514-848-2424 ext. 2919
Email: jay.mannadiar@concordia.caInstitute for Co-operative Education 
Alex Bottausci, Coordinator 
Phone: 514-848-2424 ext. 3953
Email: alex.bottausci@concordia.caSee all contacts© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFinanceJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessLearn more:Related contentRelated contactsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Finance Co-op career opportunitiesRecent Finance Co-op employers includeThe Finance Co-op advantagehttp://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/msc/program-details/finance.htmlThe Master of Science (MSc) in Finance equips students with a solid understanding of financial theory and research methodology. Graduates are prepared to build successful careers in research or analysis in the financial sector or in government. The program also serves as excellent preparation for those wishing to pursue their studies at the doctoral level.

Successful applicants to the MSc in Finance program have strong quantitative and analytical abilities and a solid understanding of economic theory and research methodology. Ultimately, they apply these skills and knowledge while conducting original research in the form of a master’s thesis, working under the direct supervision of a faculty member.Candidates interested in the MSc Finance program must have completed an undergraduate degree with excellent grades and a focus on finance and economics. In a small number of cases, applicants with a limited background in finance and economics, but who have a specialization in a quantitative discipline such as mathematics, statistics, computer science, or engineering, or a comparable research concentration in one of the social sciences, may be considered. Learn more about admissionsThe MSc program is a 45-credit program offered on a full-time or part-time basis.1 core courseThesis defenceThis seminar deals with the market for financial assets, market efficiency and the valuation of financial assets. The seminar begins with a discussion of various financial assets and their institutional trading arrangements, and then continues with a theoretical development of market efficiency and testing methodologies. Various market anomalies will be identified as the empirical evidence on whether or not various types of information are fully reflected. The seminar concludes with the theory and empirical evidence on various asset-pricing paradigms. These include the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) and the Arbitrage Pricing Model (APM) for equities, the Option pricing Model (OPM) for derivative securities, and the single factor duration model for fixed-income securities.This seminar covers the various aspects of investment analysis and management such as selection, revision and measurement in both a domestic and global environment. The seminar begins with a discussion of asset allocation systems and the merits of passive and active dynamic investment strategies in the absence and presence of market imperfections such as informational inefficiencies, taxes and transaction costs. Techniques for "stock picking", "market timing", portfolio insurance, program trading, bond swaps, (contingent) immunization, among others, will be discussed. The seminar ends with the measurement of investment performance and the management of particular types of investment portfolios. Normally, the Seminar in Investment Theory (MSCA 621) will be taken concurrently with, or prior to, this seminar.This seminar applies the theory of decision making under uncertainty to evaluate the firm's financial and real policies. It offers a rigorous review of the modern theoretical and empirical literature on the valuation of the firm's securities and their special features, the relevance of the firm's financing choices and dividend policies, corporate mergers and acquisition activities, and the determination of the firm's cost of capital. More specifically, the analyses are conducted in an equilibrium setting where the impact of imperfections such as taxes, bankruptcy costs, informational asymmetries, and agency problems is analyzed for corporate decisions.The objectives of this course are two-fold: first, to introduce the area of mergers and acquisitions and second, to strengthen and develop the research skills (both in conducting and evaluating research) of students. To encourage you to read new research, you will be required to summarize and critique the research of others. In the last few weeks of the session, we will have a mini-conference. Students will present their work and discuss the work of other students.Theoretical and empirical issues on the valuation and the financial use of options and futures are studied in this seminar. The seminar begins with an introduction of the options and futures markets and proceeds with the developments of pricing models for evaluating these securities. Several different types of options and futures contracts (such as stock index options, options on debt instruments and currencies, interest rate and stock index futures) are introduced and strategies for using them for arbitrage, hedging, and speculative purposes are discussed.This seminar examines the financial aspects of international business, including the financing and hedging activities of firms involved in the international transfer of goods and services, and decision making in connection with the asset management and financing of multinational corporations. Several mechanisms for managing international exchange and financial risk will be assessed, including forwards, options and futures on currencies as well as interest rates. The Eurocurrency and Eurobond markets will be studied, and financial market efficiency and integration will be examined in various regions.This course takes a finance perspective in examining conflicts over control and governance of the corporation. Students will familiarize themselves with the main areas of investigation in the corporate governance literature, discuss major scholarly articles of the field, get introduced to the major techniques of theoretical and empirical research, get introduced to recent contributions in the field. Out of the several mechanism to mitigate the conflicts between ownership and control, this class will focus on partial concentration of ownership and control in the hands of one or a few large investors, and alignment of managerial interests with investors through executive compensation contracts. The course will also consider the effect of legal and regulatory institutions of corporate governance in different countries. Finally we will investigate some of the reasons why the topic of corporate governance has received so much attention in recent years, namely the world-wide wave of privatization of the past two decades, deregulation and integration of capital markets combined with recent financial crises that have put the spotlight on corporate governance in emerging markets, and a series of recent US scandals and corporate failures. This seminar is designed to introduce students to several multivariate analysis techniques with emphasis on the practical use of these tools in business research. Techniques that will be covered in this course include MANOVA, discriminant analysis, principal components and factor analysis, canonical correlation analysis and multidimensional scaling. The objective of the seminar is to provide a fundamental understanding of the nature, power, and the limitations of multivariate statistical techniques.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFinanceJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessAdmissions
                
            
                
					
                    Program structure & recommended MSc program plan
                
            
                    MSCA 621   Investment Theory   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MSCA 622   Investment Management   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MSCA 623   Financial Theory and Corporate Policy   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MSCA 624   Mergers, Restructuring, and Corporate Control   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MSCA 625   Options and Futures   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MSCA 629   International Financial Management   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MSCA 632K   Corporate Governance & Executive Compensation   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MSCA 683   Multivariate Data Analysis   (3.0 credits)Specialized Finance seminarsPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notes
Other seminarPrerequisites & notesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Program structure: Year 1Program structure: Year 2http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/about/departments/finance.htmlThe Department of Finance at the John Molson School of Business (JMSB) is committed to excellence in both research and teaching and has earned a solid reputation as a productive and research oriented academic unit.The Department’s research activities include theoretical, empirical, and applied contributions - all aimed at furthering knowledge in the field. Its teaching activities cover a wide range of topics including corporate finance, investment, international finance, personal finance, optimization techniques, portfolio management, options and futures and fluctuations in security prices, exchange rates, and interest rates.The department is located on the downtown campus of Concordia University, in beautiful Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Explore our website to find out more about becoming a student here or about exciting career opportunities in our department. Learn more about our seminars and lectures:MSc in FinanceDepartment Coordinator:
 Sandra Romanini, MB 12.207
Tel: 514-848-2424, ext. 2793
Sandra.Romanini@concordia.ca

Department Assistant:
Edite Almeida, MB 12.205
Tel: 514-848-2424, ext. 2789
Edite.Almeida@concordia.caPart-time Faculty Office
 MB 12.280 & MB 12.282
Tel: 514-848-2424, ext. 2792© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFinanceJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            NewsResources for FacultyOur departmentOur programsPosition announcementsContact usConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424