http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/admissions/open-house/activities-academic/fine-arts.html
Get a glimpse of Open House 2016 activities...Sir George Williams Campus — EV 6.720 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. (registration ends at 3 p.m.)
 Bring your artwork with you and get one-on-one constructive feedback from faculty members and current students. You’ll leave with helpful information about how to put together a strong portfolio in support of your application. Find out more about Portfolio Day.  For students interested in: Information session
 12 p.m. — SGW Campus, EV 2.645 Length: 45 minutes
 Learn more about the program and exciting career opportunities in the field. Held in the Art Education studio.Block printing atelier
 1 p.m. — SGW Campus, EV 2.645 Length: 60 minutes
 A demonstration of the teaching techniques learned in the Art Education program through a hands-on atelier taught by Art Ed student Dominique Turk. Make your own block stamp and print!Art History mixer
 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. — SGW Campus, EV 3.760
 Meet current Art History students and learn about our student groups' dynamic projects. Browse student publications and learn how to get involved in annual activities.Contemporary dance technique workshop
 10 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. — SGW Campus, MB 7th floor studio Length: 60 minutes
 Experience Contemporary Dance technique. Open to all skill levels. Creative process / choreography workshop   
 11:15 a.m. and 2:45 p.m. — SGW Campus, MB 7th floor studio Length: 60 minutes
 Experience creative and choreographic processes. Length: 60 minutes
 
 Dance performance
 12:30 p.m. — SGW Campus, MB 7th floor studio Length: 60 minutes
 Excerpts of new works by current students, followed by a question and answer session. A chance to meet and exchange with our students.Information session
 2 p.m. — SGW Campus, EV 1.605 Length: 45 minutes
 Art Therapy, Drama Therapy and Music Therapy (graduate studies)
 Hear about how the power of therapy and the creative arts helps those with emotional and psychological difficulties deal with their problems through a co-operative process of discovery. Includes admission requirements, course selection and career opportunities. Information session
 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. — SGW Campus, EV 1.615 Length: 45 minutes
 At the intersection of design, art and technology
 Discover how these visionary programs can help you unleash your creativity and ability as an artist. Includes a look at the curriculum and how to build a strong portfolio. Information session
 12 and 3 p.m. — SGW Campus, EV 1.605 Length: 45 minutes
 Discover what our Film Studies, Film Animation and Film Production programs have to offer. Imagine the possibilities through screenings of student films and meet our fantastic faculty members.Film Studies mini lecture
 11 a.m. — SGW Campus, EV 1.605 Length: 30 minutes
 An Introduction to Film Aesthetics
 The Faculty of Fine Arts has the finest film studies facilities in Canada. As part of an introduction to our first-year film aesthetics course, see and discuss discussing a film clip (on Blu-ray). Includes a demonstration of 35mm film projection and high-resolution, Christie 2K digital projection equipment.Film Studies mini lecture
 1 p.m. — SGW Campus, EV 1.605 Length: 30 minutes
 Are These Damsels in Distress? Anita Sarkeesian, Gender Tropes in Video Games, and the Pro/Anti-Porn Feminist Debate in North America
 Anita Sarkeesian is a Canadian-American journalist and self-proclaimed feminist web activist who criticizes the stereotypical representation of women in pop culture narratives across various media. Yet it was her web video series “Tropes vs Women in Video Games” that made her famous, particularly because of the harassment campaign that the series provoked. This mini-lecture situates the debates surrounding Sarkeesian’s Web-series within the framework of feminist approaches to the representation of women’s body and sexuality in video games and other audiovisual media.Performances and jam sessions
 Drop in anytime between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. — SGW Campus, MB 8th floor
 Campus jazz performances, improvisation and contemporary performance master classes, visits and experiments in the Electroacoustic studios, and live compositions offered by the classical, contemporary and jazz departments. Plus: a laptop orchestra and jam sessions – bring your instrument!Video audition clinic
 Drop in anytime between 1:30 and 3:30 p.m. — SGW Campus, MB 8th floor
 Learn the do’s and don’ts of submitting your video audition. Bring yours in for feedback!Information session
 12 and 2 p.m. — SGW Campus, EV 1.615 Length: 45 minutes
 Immerse yourself in the world of Studio Arts at Concordia. Learn about our programs, admission requirements, course selection, themes and facilities. Also, take in some beautiful student work!Student Printmaking Association sale
 All day — SGW Campus, EV Lobby, table 137
 Our print media students display their gorgeous prints for sale.Undergraduate Photography exhibition and print sale
 All day — SGW Campus, EV Lobby, table 138
 Interact with undergraduate Photography students and see their work, plus take advantage of the chance to purchase their art.Acting workshop
 1 p.m. — SGW Campus, MB 7th floor studio Length: 60 minutes
 Get an on-your-feet introduction to acting. Performance Creation hub
 Drop by anytime between 10 a.m. and 3 p.m. — SGW Campus, MB 7th floor studio
 Interested in writing, directing, teaching, dramaturgy, production, socially engaged theatre, or all of the above? Check out the display, enjoy refreshments and chat with students about our exciting new programs.Faculty of Fine Arts facilities
 In English: throughout the day. En français : 11 h, 13 h, 15 h — SGW Campus, EV Building lobby, Fine Arts Tours table 136
 Length: 45 minutes
 See where art is conceived and nurtured. Visit our state-of-the-art studios in print media, fibres, design, photography and much more. Theatre
 11 a.m. — SGW Campus, EV Building lobby, Theatre table 125
 Length: 45 minutes
 Explore the department's facilities with a Theatre student as your guide.All day — SGW Campus, EV 1.715
 Appreciate the range and quality of the artistic masterpieces on display at the Faculty of Fine Arts’ FOFA Gallery.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityFine ArtsPortfolio DayInformation tablesPresentations
ToursFOFA GalleryOpen House
            
                Open HouseArt EducationArt HistoryContemporary DanceCreative Arts TherapiesDesign and Computation ArtsMel Hoppenheim School of CinemaMusicStudio ArtsTheatreConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424