http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/calendar/current/graduate-admission.htmlAll graduate programs offered by Concordia University, except for the Individualized Program (INDI), are attached to one of the three Faculties or to the John Molson School of Business. The Individual Program (INDI) is attached to the School of Graduate Studies. All graduate programs are under the general supervision of the Council of the School of Graduate Studies and its chair, the Dean of Graduate Studies.A listing of all current degree programs and fields of advanced study is provided in the Programs section. The degree programs are described fully in the Calendar’s Faculty sections: Faculty of Arts and Science, Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science, Faculty of Fine Arts, John Molson School of Business, and the School of Graduate Studies. Existing degree programs are a reflection of research interests, of the professors and researchers on staff, and of the needs of the community served by the University. Inquiries concerning these degree programs should therefore be sent to the relevant program.In conjunction with the degree program, the Dean of Graduate Studies is responsible for ensuring the quality of the admission of students to the doctoral, master’s, diploma and certificate programs of the University. Admission is based on an assessment of the student’s qualifications for the proposed program of study and entails specific credit, residence, course, thesis, and examination requirements, which vary from program to program.Applicants to graduate programs should apply online; more information is available on the Graduate Studies website.Applicants may apply as full-time or part-time students; refer to Student Classification for more information.Admission Application Deadlines vary depending on the degree program. Applicants should contact the degree program to which they are applying for specific admission deadlines. Applicants should arrange for all required documentation to be in the appropriate office by the deadline. Please note that many programs only admit new students for the term which begins in September.New students (applying for admission to a Master’s or Doctoral program) are now automatically considered for all Entrance Awards; there is no separate application process. Refer to Awards page for further information.There is a $100 (Canadian) application fee per application. The fee is payable on-line by Visa, MasterCard, or international Wire Transfer. This application fee is not refundable under any circumstances, nor can it be used towards tuition. It is not transferable to a session other than that for which the student is applying.TopApplicants to Concordia University must meet the minimum university requirements to be considered for admission. Some degree programs may have additional or stricter requirements. These requirements are detailed in the degree program’s calendar section and applicants should review this information. The minimum requirements to be considered for admission to graduate studies at Concordia are listed below.Concordia University evaluates international degree equivalencies and Canadian equivalencies upon receipt of an application.To be considered for admission to Doctoral-level studies, the applicant must have completed a master’s/magisteriate degree (or equivalent) with high standing.To be considered for admission to Master-level studies, the applicant must have a bachelor’s/baccalaureate degree (or equivalent) with high standing (e.g., with honours, or the Concordia equivalent of a GPA of at least 3.00 on a scale of 4.30).To be considered for admission to most graduate diploma or graduate certificate-level studies, the applicant must have completed a bachelor’s/baccalaureate degree (or equivalent) with the Concordia equivalent of at GPA of at least 2.70 on a scale of 4.30.Some degree programs may have additional, or higher, academic requirements. Applicants should review the Calendar program section of the degree program in which they are interested.The language of instruction at Concordia is English.Applicants should check their prospective program’s requirements. In all cases, the University reserves the right to require a proficiency test if it is deemed necessary.A student whose primary language is not English must write a pre-admission proficiency test, if not exempted as indicated below. Test results must be reported directly to the Admissions Application Centre by the test centre. Results more than two years old will not be accepted as proof of language proficiency.Proof of proficiency in English must be provided by achieving the appropriate score on one of the following:Please note: individual programs may require a higher minimum score.PersonalApplicants whose primary language is not English, regardless of citizenship, may be exempted from the proficiency test if they meet one or more of the following requirements:ProgramApplicants to the following programs may be exempted from the English proficiency testing:Applicants should check their prospective program’s requirements. In all cases, the University reserves the right to require a proficiency test if it is deemed necessary.TopThe ministère de l’Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport (MELS) requires all registered students to have a “permanent code” (a unique identifying number) which is assigned by MELS.Applicants who do not provide a valid code with their application must apply for one upon receiving admission to Concordia University. Information on how to apply for a permanent code and a link to the on-line “Permanent Code Data Form” can be found at the Permanent Code websiteStudents who do not submit or apply for a permanent code will be charged a permanent code surchargeApplicants who are deficient in certain courses may be required to take prerequisite courses either as an Independent student or as a student in a Qualifying Program. Refer to Independent Students and Qualifying ProgramsStudents taking prerequisite courses are charged tuition and other fees on a per credit basis for these courses. See Tuition & FeesStudent may be entitled to transfer credit from previous studies to their new program and/or be exempted from certain courses. Refer to Transfer Credits and Exemptions for additional information.Depending on the degree program and on the number of courses required, prerequisite courses taken in a Qualifying Program may be taken prior to admission into a graduate program or concurrently with the graduate program.Qualifying Program (prior to admission to a graduate program): Applicants who have completed an undergraduate program leading to a bachelor’s degree, but whose preparation is inadequate for direct admission to a graduate program, may, upon recommendation by a department, be permitted to register for a Qualifying Program of advanced undergraduate or graduate studies. Students admitted to a Qualifying Program take undergraduate or graduate courses as preparation for application to a graduate program.Qualifying Program (concurrent): Students admitted to a graduate program and a concurrent Qualifying Program are required to complete prerequisite courses at the same time as they complete their Graduate Program requirements. The Qualifying Program normally does not exceed 12 credits but may consist of graduate and/or undergraduate courses.A student who does not successfully complete a concurrent Qualifying Program within the first three terms will be automatically placed on academic probation. Standard ‘May Continue’ or ‘May Not Continue’ student requests will apply.TopApplicants who have been accepted to a degree program and who wish to postpone the start of their studies may request a deferral of admission. These students should contact their degree program in order to request permission for a change of admission date. In cases where a program approves a deferment of admission, there is a $25 fee. The deferral form can be found in the Forms for Students section. The completed form along with the deferral fee, should be submitted to the applicant’s degree program.Accelerated admission (fast-tracking) describes a process whereby exceptional students are admitted to PhD programs without a master’s/magisteriate degree in the same discipline.Students who follow this process must show high academic performance or potential, evidenced by an outstanding GPA, appropriate research publications in the field of study, a research topic at the master’s/magisteriate level which is advanced enough for a doctoral thesis proposal, or other similar demonstrations of achievement.Students who are accepted for accelerated admission and who are currently registered in a master’s/magisteriate degree program, or who would do so directly from a bachelor’s degree, are expected to complete the course component of the thesis option master’s/magisteriate in the same discipline in addition to the standard academic requirements for the doctoral program.Students currently in a degree program may choose to transfer from one program to another (e.g. from a Master of Arts in Judaic Studies to a Master of Arts in Philosophy, or from a Master of Engineering in Mechanical Engineering to a Master of Applied Science in Mechanical Engineering).A request to transfer from one degree program to another is considered to be a new application. Students who wish to transfer degree programs must submit an on-line application, along with the required application fee. Documentation showing professional and educational achievements outside of Concordia must be submitted if they have not already been provided.Students who have been withdrawn from a graduate program for academic reasons (e.g. low GPA, C or F grades) may wish to be considered for re-admission into the program. Normally, students must have been withdrawn from the program for a minimum of five terms in order to be reconsidered. A request for re-admission is considered to be a new application. Students who wish to be considered for re-admission must submit an on-line application, along with the required application fee. Documentation (e.g. CV, transcripts) showing professional or educational accomplishments since the student was withdrawn must be submitted along with a recommendation for re-admission by the degree program.Students who withdrew or have been withdrawn from a graduate program for non-academic reasons (e.g. non-continuous registration) may wish to submit a Student Request form requesting re-instatement to the program. Refer to the Classification and Registration for more information.Top© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
AdmissionThe Application ProcessAdmission Application DeadlinesGraduate Application FeeAdmission RequirementsPrerequisite CoursesTransfer Credits and ExemptionsQualifying ProgramDeferment of AdmissionAccelerated Admission to PhD ProgramsInternal TransferRe-Admission of Withdrawn StudentsRe-Instatement of Withdrawn StudentsAcademic RequirementsLanguage Proficiency RequirementsExemptionsPermanent CodeConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424