http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/calendar/current/graduate-registration.htmlApplicants who do not have the minimum qualifications for direct admission into a degree program may request to take courses as an independent graduate student. Likewise, graduate students who are enrolled in degree programs but who wish to take courses outside their degree requirements may request to take undergraduate courses as independent undergraduate students or graduate-level courses as independent graduate studentsIndependent graduate students enroll in a particular graduate course, without being admitted to the degree program which offers the course.Normally, independent graduate students take no more than the equivalent of two graduate courses per term, and no more than the equivalent of four graduate courses from the courses of any graduate degree program up to 12 credits.Only applicants who have the qualifications for admission to the course in question will be given permission to take the course. In every case, permission of the Graduate Program Director and/or Faculty Student Affairs Office must be obtained. Meeting the minimum requirements of an individual course does not guarantee entry to that course, as preference will be given to degree program students.Independent Graduate Students are subject to the fees and regulations applicable to such categories of students.Credits earned by independent graduate students may be considered for transfer credit in the event that the students are subsequently admitted to a graduate degree program. Please note that financial credit will not be awarded however.Normally, an independent graduate student who receives an F grade is no longer allowed to continue studies.Graduate independent students are eligible to audit courses. Refer to the section on Auditing StudentsGraduate visiting students are graduate students from other universities who have been authorized by their home universities to take graduate courses at Concordia University. They are subject to the regulations of Concordia University.Graduate students from other Québec universities must submit requests for courses through the Inter-University Agreement (INTU/CREPUQ) process.Graduate students from Canadian universities outside of Québec must complete the Graduate Transfer Agreement between Canadian Universities (CAGS) form or obtain a letter (or form) of authorization from their home university. This document must be submitted to the degree program offering the course in which they are interested.Graduate students from universities outside of Canada must contact Concordia International if their home university has an exchange agreement with Concordia. They will be considered as Visiting Exchange students. If no exchange agreement exists, the student must obtain a letter of permission from their home university stating which courses they are permitted to take. The students must also provide information on their home university, official transcripts and immigration documents.Auditing students are graduate students who, with the permission of the Graduate Program Director and/or Faculty Student Affairs Office of the program in which the course is offered, may attend a class that is not a requirement of the student’s program. There is no credit value assigned when courses are audited and students are not required to complete assignments or write examinations. Refer to Tuition and Fees for detailed information on the financial implications.TopGraduate Certificate and Diploma Programs
Students in a graduate certificate or diploma program are considered to be full-time students if they register for 9 or more credits in a term.Students who do not fall in the situations as describe above, are considered to be part-time students.Master’s and Doctoral Programs
Students in master’s or doctoral degree programs are accepted as full or part-time students at the time of admission. These students are considered to be full or part-time according to their status at admission, regardless of the actual amount of credits for which they register. Their classification will change only if they submit a request to change their status.MBA students enrolled in the Executive MBA program and the Investment Management MBA program are considered full-time students as they have to follow an established schedule of courses per term.Master of Business Administration (MBA) program students are considered full-time if they register for a minimum of 12 credits in each of the Fall and Winter terms. Part-time MBA students are permitted to register for a maximum of 6 credits in each of the Fall and Winter terms and a minimum of 12 credits in the academic year.Independent Graduate and Visiting students are considered to be part-time students.Visiting Exchange students are considered to be full-time students.Requests for changes to student classification (from full-time to part-time or vice-versa) requests must be submitted prior to the DNE deadline of a given term. Students must contact the Graduate Program Director in their program in order to initiate a Student Request. A change of student classification may have implications for students receiving loans, bursaries, or awards; students should check the regulations associated with their loans, bursaries, or awards. International students must retain the status as indicated on their Study Permit/CAQ.Changes to a student’s classification may also affect the student’s time limit and/or their payment schedule.TopA number of programs currently offer web registration. In these programs, it is the student’s responsibility to add, change or drop their courses on-line, by the deadlines indicated in the Academic Calendar.Students in programs not offering web registration must contact the Graduate Program Director in order to add, drop or change their course(s).All students are responsible to verify on MyConcordia that their registration has been processed and that the course registration appears on their student record. Any errors or omissions must be addressed prior to the registration deadlines of the term in question.It is the student’s responsibility to ensure that course registrations have been processed and/or requested from their program by the deadline dates listed in the Academic Calendar.If not officially registered in a course, students are not entitled to attend the course or to receive grades for any completed work. Refer to the Academic Calendar for a detailed list of deadline dates.If, due to extenuating circumstances, a student could not register by the registration deadline dates, they must contact the Graduate Program Director in order to initiate a Student Request to late register a course(s). In such cases, a student may attend classes until they receive a decision. Late registration is allowed only in special circumstances, with the approval of the Graduate Program Director and the School of Graduate Studies. Student requests for late registrations must be supported by appropriate documentation.Students will incur a late registration fee when they register on, or after, the date that classes officially begin across the University.TopWithdrawing from a course leads to either a Did Not Enter (DNE) or a Discontinued (DISC) notation.It is the student’s responsibility to meet all deadlines and follow all necessary steps to withdraw from a course(s), or from the University. Not attending classes or informing an instructor of the intent to withdraw does not constitute official withdrawal. It is not mandatory for an instructor to provide students with any evaluation or feedback of their progress in a course before the withdrawal deadline. Students who do not properly withdraw before the published deadlines will receive failing grades.A DNE means that the student has officially withdrawn from the course. The DNE’d course(s) will be removed from the student’s academic record, and will not appear on the record. Refer to Tuition and Fees for detailed information on the financial implications and the Academic Calendar for deadline dates. Non-standard DNE dates are available through the Graduate program office.A DISC is an academic withdrawal from a course. This means that the student is still registered in the course, but no longer has to attend classes or complete the course work. The student will not be academically penalized (i.e. receive a failed grade). A DISC notation is permanent and appears on the student transcript next to the relevant course. Failure to comply with the DISC withdrawal deadline results in the course(s) in question being graded Fail, F, or Fail/Absent (F-ABS). Refer to F rule for academic standing.Students who wish to withdraw from their program or from the University must do so by the DNE deadline and include the reason(s) for withdrawing. A “Notice of Withdrawal from Graduate Program” form must be completed and submitted to the student’s Graduate Program Director. It is the student’s responsibility to ensure that they have DNE’ed their courses by the deadline for the withdrawal to be effective for the beginning of term. If the withdrawal from program is submitted after the DNE deadline, it will be effective the beginning of the following term. If the student does not wish to complete their course(s), it is their responsibility to ensure they have withdrawn from their courses by the DISC date. Failure to comply with the DISC withdrawal deadline results in the course(s) in question being graded Fail/F/Fail/Absent (F-ABS). The student’s record will reflect “withdrew from program”.Refer to Tuition and Fees for detailed information on the financial implications.
(for students in master’s or doctoral programs)After a student’s first registration has been processed, the registration system will consider master and doctoral students to be continuing in their program when they are not otherwise registered in academic courses. Students who are still within their program time limit but are not registered in course credits, will be identified as “Continuing in Program” on their student record (CIP 001/1, 001/2 or 001/4). This notation is an academic notation and not a registration for academic credit. Students with a CIP notation will be charged either tuition or a Continuation fee. Refer to the Tuition and Fees for detailed information on the financial implications.Students who are not registered for courses in the first term of admission must get approval from the School of Graduate Studies for a CIP notation. Students must see the Graduate Program Director in their program in order to initiate a Student Request.The notation on the student record will show Continuing in Program (CIP) or Time Limit Extension (TLE), respectively, unless replaced by a course registration. The CIP is an automatic process. Should a student subsequently register for courses, the automatic CIP will be removed.Automatic CIPs will occur for returning students only if there are no restrictions on record (e.g. academic, financial, expired time limits). Students will be withdrawn from their program if the automatic CIPs cannot be processed each term.TopGraduate students in Master’s and Doctoral programs will be withdrawn from their program if course registration or academic course notation (CIP/TLE) cannot be processed each term due to any outstanding admission, immigration documents, unpaid accounts or poor academic standing.Graduate students in Diploma and Graduate Certificate programs will be withdrawn once their time limit has expired.Refer to the sections on Continuing in Program (CIP) Registrations as well as Re-Instatement of Withdrawn StudentsIndependent graduate students and graduate visiting students who have not registered for courses for three consecutive terms or more will have their student status lapsed and must submit a new application for permission to register as an independent or visiting studentStudents who have exceeded their time limit and have been granted a limit extension will automatically be registered in “Time Limit Extension” (TLE) by the system until they have reached their program time limit extension. If a course is registered, the TLE notation is replaced with the course. Refer to Tuition and Fees for detailed information on the financial implications.Québec universities have agreed to permit the transfer of academic credits between them using the CREPUQ/INTU Registration system. Using this system, Concordia students may take courses at another Québec University (the host university) and the credits will be transferred back to Concordia to be used to meet the requirements of their degree.Up to a maximum of 6 credits may be transferred in any one year. In exceptional cases, a student may be authorized to take up to 12 credits at another university.The host university has the right to accept or refuse a request for registration from a student in another university, in any of the courses or programs which it offers. Students are subject to the rules and regulations of the host university.Eligible studentsOnly students enrolled in a degree program are eligible to register under the Inter-University Agreement. Authorization for a Concordia graduate student to register at another university must be given by the student’s Graduate Program Director, the Dean of Graduate Studies, and the Office of the Registrar. Only students in good academic standing will be approved to register under the Inter-University Agreement. In addition, in order for students to be approved, their admission file must be complete and finalized. Concordia students wishing to take a course at another university cannot have an outstanding account balance.Eligible CoursesThe agreement normally covers only graduate degree students and graduate-level courses, and is intended to include only those courses not given at the home university which fit a student’s program requirements. In exceptional cases, graduate students may be authorized to take undergraduate courses to meet the requirements of a concurrent qualifying program.Transfer of GradesThe grades achieved at other institutions for courses taken under the Inter-University Agreement will be recorded on Concordia records and transcripts using a conversion table. These grades will be included in the calculation of grade point averages in the same manner as any grade achieved in a course taken at Concordia and subsequently transferred into the student’s program.Payment of CoursesPayment for the courses is due at the student’s home university. Refer to Tuition and Fees. Any additional costs (i.e. lab materials) are payable to the host university.Registration/Cancellation of CoursesAll requests for registration and/or cancellation of courses are done through the CREPUQ website. Students are responsible for accessing the CREPUQ website to check the status of their request on a regular basis. Requests go though several stages of processing and e-mails will not necessarily be sent to update the student on the status at each stage.DeadlinesRequests for registration or cancellation of courses at other universities must be submitted by the deadline of the host university. Students are advised to inform themselves of the host university’s deadlines, since they may be different from Concordia’s.Students should refer to the CREPUQ website for detailed information.TopRefer to the Academic Calendar for a detailed list of deadline dates. These deadlines shall apply for all courses taken by graduate students in their graduate program or as independent or visiting graduate students.Refer to Tuition and Fees for detailed information on the financial implications related to late registration, DNEs, DISCs Continuation fees or TLEs.Students can access information concerning their personal class schedule, current course grades, account balance, tuition and enrolment receipts for educational tax credit, loans and bursaries, personal book list, permanent code status and registration dates on their student portal. Students can also update their mailing address(es) and e-mail address(es) on the student portal; students are responsible for ensuring that the contact details listed are current.Tuition and other fees are automatically assessed and charged to the student’s account once a student has registered in a course(s) or has a Continuing in Program (CIP) or a Time Limit Extension (TLE) academic notation on their student record. The student’s account balance is available on the student portal. Refer to Tuition and Fees for detailed information.All master’s and doctoral programs have a minimum residence requirement of at least three terms for master’s degrees and six terms for doctoral degrees. This is the minimum period of time which must elapse between a student’s initial registration in the program and the student’s graduation. There is no minimum residence requirement for diploma and certificate programs.Graduate students who wish to temporarily discontinue their studies for a few terms may request a leave of absence from their program. Before requesting a leave, students should confirm with their Graduate Program Director and supervisor that all required components of their degree programs will be available when they return. The beginning and end of a leave should coincide with the beginning and end of an academic term.Leaves are granted only to students in good academic standing. Refer to the relevant Academic Regulations section.Students cannot be on Leave in terms where a course with a DISC notation appears since a Discontinued course is still considered as a registration. Refer to the Withdrawal from a course or courses section.No changes to the student’s academic status will be made during a leave.Students may not graduate with a Leave of Absence in their graduating term.Time Limit & Other DeadlinesWhile on Leave of Absence, Leave with Access or Parental Leave, the student’ program time limit will be extended by the period of the leave. All deadlines for work in progress will be extended by the period of the leave.Access to University ServicesDuring a leave of absence (of any type), students are not entitled to take courses, write exams, submit outstanding work and/or request guidance on thesis and research work. However, they may have access to some university services depending on the type of leave they request. There are three types of leaves available to students and one administrative leave:TopTypes of Leaves & FeesLeave without access: During a leave without access, a student will not have access to library, university or student services. No fees will be charged.Leave with access: During a leave with access, a student will have access to library, university and student services. Leaves with access are granted only under exceptional circumstances. A flat service fee of $150 per term will be charged.Parental leave: All graduate students are entitled to parental leave of up to three consecutive terms during their program of study on the occasion of the birth or adoption of a child. The student will have access to library, university and student services. Students holding a Concordia Fellowship will receive a deferral of their fellowship for the period of leave. In the case of other fellowships, the regulations of the granting agencies will apply. No fees will be charged.Required Administrative Leave: Students who are removed from studies resulting from expired Study Permits/CAQs, a delay in requesting reinstatement into the university or other administrative issues will be assigned a required administrative leave of absence from their program. A student will not have access to library, university or student services. No fees are charged.
A Required Administrative Leave will not extend a student’s program Time Limit.Except for Parental leave, students are normally permitted only a maximum of three terms of leave (with or without access) during their program of study. Leaves beyond three terms are only approved on an exceptional basis and with supporting documentation. Parental leave can be requested on the occasion of each birth or adoption of a child.Awards, Loans, BursariesA leave from a program of study may have implications for students receiving awards, loans or bursaries; students should check the regulations associated with their awards, loans or bursaries.Medical CoverageApplying For a LeaveWith the exception of the Required Administrative Leave, students apply in advance through the Student Request Process, prior to the DNE deadline. Students must see the Graduate Program Director in their program in order to initiate a Student Request. Students must specify the reason for the Leave and provide supporting documentation; for example, a request for leave for medical reasons must be supported by an original medical certificate.End of a LeaveOnce a student’s leave is over, the student will be considered as continuing in their program. Students in master’s and doctoral programs will receive a Continuation in Program notation on their record and be charged accordingly. Diploma and Certificate students will only be charged once they register for courses.Applications from full-time or part-time students for exceptions to academic regulations or related matters should be submitted by the student’s program using the Student Request system. Students must see the Graduate Program Director in their program in order to initiate a Student Request. A statement from the student confirming support for the request submitted with relevant supporting documentation and a recommendation from the Graduate Program Director should be included with the request and sent to the School of Graduate Studies for approval. A request is not deemed to be approved until authorized by the School of Graduate Studies.TopDepending on the policy of the degree program, students may be granted an exemption from a required course in their program curriculum. Students who are granted an exemption must replace the exempted course with another course in order to fulfill the credit requirements of the program. This replacement course must be selected in conjunction with their Graduate Program Director.Students who have been granted an exemption for a course cannot subsequently take that course for credit toward the graduate certificate, diploma or degree.Students may transfer credits from previous studies completed within the past five years to their current program. A Student Request (SRF) may be submitted to request transfer credits for courses completed more than five years ago. The credits must have been earned for graduate-level studies, and they must not have been used as part of a completed degree.Requests to transfer credits must be approved by the students’ degree program and the Dean of Graduate Studies. Transfer credits must normally be requested in the student’s first term of admission.The number of transfer credits allowed will not normally exceed one-third of the total credit requirements of the program to which the credits are being transferred. However, some degree programs may allow fewer transfer credits. Students are encouraged to read their program’s calendar section for further information.As part of a request to transfer credit, students must provide official transcripts showing that they have completed the course. The grade and number of credits they received for the course must appear on the transcript. The transcripts must be accompanied by official course descriptions for the relevant courses. In addition, the transcripts must show that the students have withdrawn from the program from which the requested credits are being transferred.Transfer credits to programs requiring a minimum admission GPA of 3.00 will be permitted only if the final grade for the course is B or better. Transfer credits to programs requiring a minimum admission GPA of 2.70 will be permitted only if the final grade for the course is B- or better.The grades associated with transfer credits do not appear on the students’ transcript and therefore will not affect their Grade Point Average. The two exceptions to this rule are credits transferred from previous studies at Concordia University and credits for courses taken under the Inter-University Agreement (INTU/CREPUQ).Courses taken previously at Concordia and courses taken under the Inter-University Agreement will appear on Concordia records and transcripts, under the new program, along with the grades associated with the courses. The transferred grades and credits will be included in the calculation of students’ grade point averages.The grades for INTU courses will be recorded using a conversion table that can be accessed at the Registrar’s websiteStudents who have been withdrawn from a graduate program by the University for non-academic reasons (e.g. non-continuous registration) may wish to submit a Student Request form requesting reinstatement to the program. Students must see the Graduate Program Director in their program in order to initiate a Student Request. This request is to be submitted for consideration during the same term in which the student was withdrawn.Students who withdrew from their program for non-academic reasons, and who are still in good academic standing according to the regulations of the university may request to be reinstated into their program. The request for reinstatement must be for an academic term no later than one year (3 academic terms) after the term of withdrawal.Top© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
Classification of Students and RegistrationClassification of StudentsIndependent StudentsVisiting StudentsAuditing StudentsStudent Classification: Full/Part-Time StatusChanges to Student Classification: Full/Part-Time Status
RegistrationRegistration for a Course(s)Late registration for a Course(s)Withdrawing from Course(s)Did Not Enter (DNE)Discontinued (DISC)Withdrawal from Program or from the UniversityContinuing In Program (CIP) RegistrationsWithdrawal from Program due to Lack of RegistrationLapsed Student StatusTime Limit Extension RegistrationsInter-University Agreement (INTU/CREPUQ)Deadline DatesFinancial ImplicationsStudent Portal (www.MyConcordia.ca)Within Minimum ResidenceLeaves of Absence from ProgramStudent RequestsExemptionsTransfer CreditsRe-Instatement of Withdrawn StudentsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424