http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/calendar/current/fasc/hist.htmlAdmission Requirements. The normal requirement for admission to the PhD is a Master of/Magisteriate in Arts degree in History, with high standing, from a recognized university. Applicants should understand that admission is contingent on a superior academic record, strong references, and a convincing statement of purpose which clearly describes their professional goals and intended area of research. In addition, admission is contingent on the availability of an appropriate faculty member in the Department of History to serve as supervisor.Requirements for the DegreeComprehensive Examinations. (12 credits). Early in their first term in the program, and in consultation with the GPD, new PhD students form an advisory committee of three faculty members to assist in the selection and preparation of comprehensive fields. In the first year of their program, students take reading courses with the supervisors of each of the three fields, which prepares the students to complete the full requirements of each field's preparation over the following terms.Subject to the availability of appropriate faculty members, the Department of History is normally prepared to supervise comprehensive examinations in a range of broadly defined geographical and chronologically limited fields, as well as in thematic fields, as suits the student's program.  Example of fields recently supervised include:  History of Canada since 1867; History of France since 1789; History of Haiti from 1801 to 1986; Labour History.  For other fields available, applicants may consult the faculty research pages of the department's website.The major field will be that in which the student’s proposed doctoral thesis falls. Normally students choose at least one field defined in specific geographical terms.Any student may offer one examination in a related discipline when approved by the History Graduate Committee and by the appropriate faculty member and/or program administrator in that discipline.The preparation of a comprehensive field should give students sufficient background to teach at an introductory level and/or do advanced research in the field. Although the requirements may vary from one field to the next, a core reading list of 50 to 100 titles per field is suggested as reasonable. The reading list for a field is be drawn up by the professor in consultation with the student in the context of the reading courses associated with the field taken in the student's first year, and once established, both must agree to any significant changes.PhD Thesis Proposal Preparation and Colloquium. HIST 885: PhD Thesis Proposal and Colloquium (6 credits). Following the successful completion of the comprehensive exams, students prepare a written thesis proposal for the approval of the internal members of their thesis committee. The thesis proposal should describe and justify the intended topic, explain its place in the historiography of the field, discuss the intended research methods, and identify the source requirements including their availability. Students are normally expected to submit and defend their thesis proposal by the end of the fifth term of their studies. When the written proposal is approved the student presents an oral colloquium about the proposal to the department. When the proposal and colloquium requirements are satisfied, the student is admitted to candidacy.TopAdmission Requirements. The normal requirement for admission into the MA is an honours degree in history or its equivalent. Applicants should understand that admission is contingent on a sound undergraduate academic record, strong letters of reference, and a convincing statement of purpose which clearly describes their academic interest in the program and intended area of research. In addition, admission is contingent on the availability of an appropriate faculty member in the Department of History to serve as supervisor. Some applicants with deficiencies in their undergraduate preparation may be admitted into a qualifying year program.Requirements for the DegreeMaster of/Magisteriate in Arts (History)CoursesMost graduate seminars and tutorials are one term in length. Courses and requirementsnumbered 600 are taken at the master’s level and those numbered 800 are taken at the PhD level. The content of these courses varies from term to term. Students should consult the department for more detailed information.HIST 600 The Nature of Historical Knowledge (3 credits)
This course examines the history of the discipline and the nature of historical knowledge, as well as contemporary debates about the meaning and practice of history. The content varies from term to term depending on the instructor(s). The material covered may include the following: research tools (e.g. library resources, the archives and the Internet), major approaches to history (e.g. Marxist, Annaliste, feminist), the debate about objectivity and truth in history, public history (history in film, television, schools, museums), and the impact of postmodernism on historical practice.HIST 601 Historical Research Methods (3 credits)
This course guides students in the intial stages of developing an MA thesis topic and elaborating a substantial research proposal.European History
 HIST 610 Selected Topics in European History (3 credits)Canadian History
 HIST 620 Selected Topics in Canadian History (3 credits)United States History
 HIST 630 Selected Topics in US History (3 credits)Latin American and Caribbean History
 HIST 634 Selected Topics in Latin American and Caribbean History (3 credits)Asian History
 HIST 638 Selected Topics in Asian History (3 credits)Middle Eastern History
 HIST 642 Selected Topics in Middle Eastern History (3 credits)African History
 HIST 646 Selected Topics in African History (3 credits)History of Genocide and Human Rights
 HIST 650 Selected Topics in the History of Genocide and Human Rights (3 credits)History of Gender and Sexuality
 HIST 660 Selected Topics in the History of Gender and Sexuality (3 credits)Public History
 HIST 665 Selected Topics in Public History (3 credits)Selected Areas of History
 HIST 670 Selected Topics in History (3 credits)
HIST 679 Tutorial in a Selected Area of History (3 credits)Research, Theses, and Comprehensive Examinations
 HIST 685 MA Thesis (30 credits)
HIST 877 Comprehensive Minor Field Tutorial (3 credits)
Subject matter varies from term to term and from year to year. Students may re-register for this course provided that the course content has changed. Changes in content are indicated by the letter following the course number, e.g. HIST 877A, HIST 877B, etc.
HIST 878 Comprehensive Major Field Tutorial (6 credits)
HIST 880 Comprehensive Examinations (12 credits)
HIST 885 PhD Thesis Proposal and Colloquium (6 credits)
HIST 889 Doctoral Seminar (6 credits)
HIST 890 Thesis Research (54 credits)Top© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
HistoryPrograms
Doctor of/Doctorate in Philosophy (History)
Master of/Magisteriate in Arts (History)Department of History WebsiteConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424