http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/finearts/2016/12/01/holiday-fundraiser-syrian-student.htmlThe Faculty of Fine Arts is hosting a Syrian student this year and is looking to the Concordia community this holiday season for help to support its effort.Please attend a December 8 fundraiser and raffle at Mesa 14 or contribute to the Faculty’s Student Refugee Fund at any time.The World University Service of Canada (WUSC) program connected this student with Concordia at Dean Rebecca Duclos’ request in early 2016. She began in the Fall term.The student – who wishes to remain anonymous – left Syria in 2013 when the conflict became too dangerous. She settled in Jordan, finished a bachelor’s degree in design for theatre and volunteered with nongovernmental organizations, designing interactive theatre activities for girls and boys.The move to Montreal was tough at first. Everything was new: the climate, the language, university life. But day by day, she adapted.“The combination between the old and new it’s really affected me. Somehow it reminds me of my country. We have the old and the new culture. That’s good for me. I feel at home,” she says.  And she has continued to do volunteer work in Montreal, working with recently-migrated Syrian children.“It’s very emotional for me to work with Syrian children. They are expressing themselves by singing. If I was able to help them with anything, I helped them with that.”Our host student took two courses this term: an English language course (courtesy of Concordia Continuing Education) and a Drawing course. While she will continue with the same courses next term, she has her eye set on the future.“Right now I am thinking about what will be good for my next steps,” she says. “After I do one or two years, I will be able to transfer to a masters degree in art therapy. But now I have to do the requirements to get into the program.”Both Perla Muyal, academic and retention counsellor for Student Academic Affairs, and Marina Polosa, coordinator, student relations with the Faculty of Fine Arts, have helped our student settle in. They took her to Open House to meet with faculty and show them her portfolio. They have also taken the lead on the fundraising efforts on behalf of the student.Thursday December 8
4pm – 7pm
Mesa 14
1425 Bishop Street$40.00 (2 drinks per person and appetizers)Please RSVP with payment by December 2. Do so at VA 2.705 or email perla.muyal@concordia.ca for more information.Come by the EV-2.705 to buy some 3/$5Prizes include: a bottle of El Jimador tequila, 1 pair tickets to a Montreal Canadiens hockey game, tickets to Cinéstars cinema, 5 bounce classes from Studio House of Bounce, and more.Visit Concordia.ca/givenow     Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversitySupport the Faculty of Fine Arts Student Refugee Fund this holiday seasonFaculty of Fine Arts
            
                Faculty of Fine Arts
            Related topicsHow to support the Faculty of Fine Arts Student Refugee FundFind an expertDecember cocktails for a cause fundraiserRaffle ticket draw December 8Donate directly to the Faculty of Fine Arts Student Refugee FundConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/finearts/2016/12/01/holiday-fundraiser-syrian-student.htmlThe Faculty of Fine Arts is hosting a Syrian student this year and is looking to the Concordia community this holiday season for help to support its effort.Please attend a December 8 fundraiser and raffle at Mesa 14 or contribute to the Faculty’s Student Refugee Fund at any time.The World University Service of Canada (WUSC) program connected this student with Concordia at Dean Rebecca Duclos’ request in early 2016. She began in the Fall term.The student – who wishes to remain anonymous – left Syria in 2013 when the conflict became too dangerous. She settled in Jordan, finished a bachelor’s degree in design for theatre and volunteered with nongovernmental organizations, designing interactive theatre activities for girls and boys.The move to Montreal was tough at first. Everything was new: the climate, the language, university life. But day by day, she adapted.“The combination between the old and new it’s really affected me. Somehow it reminds me of my country. We have the old and the new culture. That’s good for me. I feel at home,” she says.  And she has continued to do volunteer work in Montreal, working with recently-migrated Syrian children.“It’s very emotional for me to work with Syrian children. They are expressing themselves by singing. If I was able to help them with anything, I helped them with that.”Our host student took two courses this term: an English language course (courtesy of Concordia Continuing Education) and a Drawing course. While she will continue with the same courses next term, she has her eye set on the future.“Right now I am thinking about what will be good for my next steps,” she says. “After I do one or two years, I will be able to transfer to a masters degree in art therapy. But now I have to do the requirements to get into the program.”Both Perla Muyal, academic and retention counsellor for Student Academic Affairs, and Marina Polosa, coordinator, student relations with the Faculty of Fine Arts, have helped our student settle in. They took her to Open House to meet with faculty and show them her portfolio. They have also taken the lead on the fundraising efforts on behalf of the student.Thursday December 8
4pm – 7pm
Mesa 14
1425 Bishop Street$40.00 (2 drinks per person and appetizers)Please RSVP with payment by December 2. Do so at VA 2.705 or email perla.muyal@concordia.ca for more information.Come by the EV-2.705 to buy some 3/$5Prizes include: a bottle of El Jimador tequila, 1 pair tickets to a Montreal Canadiens hockey game, tickets to Cinéstars cinema, 5 bounce classes from Studio House of Bounce, and more.Visit Concordia.ca/givenow     Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversitySupport the Faculty of Fine Arts Student Refugee Fund this holiday seasonDepartment of Creative Arts Therapies
            
                Department of Creative Arts Therapies
            Related topicsHow to support the Faculty of Fine Arts Student Refugee FundFind an expertDecember cocktails for a cause fundraiserRaffle ticket draw December 8Donate directly to the Faculty of Fine Arts Student Refugee FundConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424