http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/humanities-doctoral-program.htmlToday’s vital issues involve multiple and inter-related elements that call for innovative and interdisciplinary approaches to knowledge and making, something the Humanities PhD Program, based in the Centre for Interdisciplinary Studies in Society and Culture (CISSC), is ideally suited to offer. Our students enter the program with an MA or MFA, come from a variety of disciplines across the humanities, social sciences and fine arts, and benefit from a lively and supportive milieu conducive to innovation and cross-fertilization.Concordia has a long tradition of championing interdisciplinarity – going back to the establishment of the Humanities PhD program in 1973 – and Humanities students and their supervisors, who come from departments across the Faculties of Arts and Science and Fine Arts, are key participants in Concordia’s outstanding research and research-creation centres and labs, including Milieux, Technoculture Art and Games, Hexagram, Matralab, Media History Research Centre, SenseLab, Centre for Sensory Studies, Centre for Expanded Poetics, Centre for Curating & Public Scholarship, the Loyola Sustainability Research Centre, as well as collaborative inter-university research projects such as CRIHN, Figura/NT2, QCBS, and IMMERSe.Humanities PhD projects can be undertaken in any of the many areas of interdisciplinary expertise at Concordia, including those listed below. See Research Currents for a sampling of Concordia faculty members whose work has been influential in opening up and charting these fields. Humanities PhD students entering with an MFA can pursue research-creation projects that combine scholarly investigation with creative practice in a variety of media. This list is illustrative, not exhaustive – there are many other potential avenues of interdisciplinary research for you to explore at Concordia, and we welcome your proposals!Doctoral applicants interested in multidisciplinary studies in engineering, computer science, business and economics or pure and applied sciences should consider applying to the Individualized Programs (INDI).Requirements for the DegreeComprehensive Examinations (Humanities 885). Before admission to candidacy for the degree, students must pass three comprehensive field examinations and an oral examination of the student’s written thesis proposal. The three comprehensive field examinations are normally written during the term immediately following the completion of the 24 (minimum) course credits. The examinations are set and coordinated by the student’s advisory committee. The three comprehensive field examinations are designated:Admission Requirements. The normal requirement is a master’s degree with high standing from a recognized university. The Humanities Program Committee will scrutinize the applicant’s academic background and proposed program of study in order to determine whether a) the applicant’s interests are truly interdisciplinary, and fall within the scope of the available faculty and facilities at Concordia, and b) the student’s record indicates that he or she is likely to be able to cope with a demanding program involving rigorous practice in more than one discipline.For detailed information about the application process to the Humanities program and required documents, please consult the full list.We invite applications from highly qualified candidates with an MA or MFA wishing to embark on original interdisciplinary projects. We also welcome research-creation projects that combine creative practice with scholarly investigation.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Required CoursesHUMA 888 Seminar in Interdisciplinary Studies I (3 credits)
A required core seminar to be taken by all students in their first year in the program. This course is an introduction to methodologies of interdisciplinary study germane to the Humanities, Fine Arts and Social Sciences. The course also sensitizes students to historical changes in the way intellectual inquiry is conceptualized and carried out.HUMA 889 Seminar in Interdisciplinary Studies II (3 credits)
A required core seminar to be taken by all students in their first year in the program. Each year a different topic is selected with the aim of exploring how a theme of common interest (e.g., space/time, publics and counterpublics, performance) is pursued and challenged across disciplinary boundaries.Elective CourseHUMA 887 Advanced Seminar in Special Topics in Interdisciplinary Studies (3 credits)
This seminar examines in-depth special topics in interdisciplinary studies.
Note: The content will vary from term to term and from year to year. Students may re-register for this course, provided the course content has changed. Changes in content will be indicated by a letter following the course number, e.g. HUMA 887A, HUMA 887B, etc.Comprehensive Examinations and ThesisHUMA 885A Comprehensive Examination Major Field (3 credits)
HUMA 885B Comprehensive Examination Minor Field I (3 credits)
HUMA 885C Comprehensive Examination Minor Field II (3 credits)
HUMA 886 Thesis Proposal with Defence (3 credits)
HUMA 890 Thesis (54 credits)TopHumanities PhD students are able to draw on the expertise of outstanding scholars and artists in Concordia’s Faculty of Arts and Science and Faculty of Fine Arts.  Students create their own path and pursue unique projects while supported by an advisory committee of three faculty members: a Major field supervisor (usually in the same discipline as the student’s MA or MFA) and two Minor field advisors. Any full-time Concordia faculty member in departments in the Humanities, Social Sciences, or Fine Arts holding a doctorate is entitled to supervise students in the program. Arrangements can also be made to enable full-time faculty members with an MFA degree to serve on students’ advisory committees.See tips on approaching potential advisors.Meet our affiliated faculty members.At admission time, applicants to the Humanities PhD program are considered for Concordia Fellowships, and international students are also considered for partial tuition remission.In addition, a variety of funding opportunities are available to both new and current students pursuing graduate studies at Concordia. Students are urged to consult the School of Graduate Studies to keep up-to-date with all funding initiatives from internal (Concordia University and its donors) and external (government and industry) sources.Teaching and research assistantshipsHumanities PhD students find opportunities to teach at Concordia through the home departments of their supervisors, and may also be eligible to teach writing and language courses. Students are strongly encouraged to take the free Graduate Seminar in University Teaching, offered by Concordia’s Centre for Teaching and Learning several times per term, since some departments demand it as a prerequisite for teaching.Students are also advised to discuss opportunities for Research Assistantship with their advisors.Consult Humanities funding for further information.See a sampling of current Humanities students’ profiles and find out about the provocative and inspiring projects they are working on. See examples of Humanities students’ daring and innovative research-creation projects that combine scholarly exploration with creative practice in a wide variety of media.  Research Creation.
Browse the Humanities PhD theses database for stellar dissertations that exemplify the Humanities program’s great interdisciplinary breadth and depth. Read about recent award-winning Humanities doctoral dissertationsOur graduates have gone on to pursue fulfilling and successful careers in education, the arts, various levels of government, community organizations, and research in the private and public sectors. Browse a sampling of Humanities Alumni Profiles, with more profiles to come!Email: humanities@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2095Location: 
 1400 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W., LB 689-1
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 2V8Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityHumanities (PhD)Program detailsKey resourcesDegree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Finding major and minor field advisors
                
            
                
					
                    Funding
                
            
                
					
                    Student projects – inspiring research and research-creation 
                
            
                
					
                    Your professional future – featured aumni
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a doctorate in the humanities?Related ProgramsDoctorate (PhD)We're transforming knowledge and creative expression through interdisciplinary research and research-creation.  Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424