http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/calendar/current/fasc/huma.htmlAdmission Requirements. The normal requirement is a master’s degree with high standing from a recognized university. The Humanities Program Committee will scrutinize the applicant’s academic background and proposed program of study in order to determine whether a) the applicant’s interests are truly interdisciplinary, and fall within the scope of the available faculty and facilities at Concordia, and b) the student’s record indicates that he or she is likely to be able to cope with a demanding program involving rigorous practice in more than one discipline.Requirements for the DegreeComprehensive Examinations (Humanities 885). Before admission to candidacy for the degree, students must pass three comprehensive field examinations and an oral examination of the student’s written thesis proposal. The three comprehensive field examinations are normally written during the term immediately following the completion of the 24 (minimum) course credits. The examinations are set and coordinated by the student’s advisory committee. The three comprehensive field examinations are designated:Academic RegulationsRequired CoursesHUMA 888 Seminar in Interdisciplinary Studies I (3 credits)
A required core seminar to be taken by all students in their first year in the program. This course is an introduction to methodologies of interdisciplinary study germane to the Humanities, Fine Arts and Social Sciences. The course also sensitizes students to historical changes in the way intellectual inquiry is conceptualized and carried out.HUMA 889 Seminar in Interdisciplinary Studies II (3 credits)
A required core seminar to be taken by all students in their first year in the program. Each year a different topic is selected with the aim of exploring how a theme of common interest (e.g., space/time, publics and counterpublics, performance) is pursued and challenged across disciplinary boundaries.Elective CourseHUMA 887 Advanced Seminar in Special Topics in Interdisciplinary Studies (3 credits)
This seminar examines in-depth special topics in interdisciplinary studies.
Note: The content will vary from term to term and from year to year. Students may re-register for this course, provided the course content has changed. Changes in content will be indicated by a letter following the course number, e.g. HUMA 887A, HUMA 887B, etc.Comprehensive Examinations and ThesisHUMA 885A Comprehensive Examination Major Field (3 credits)
HUMA 885B Comprehensive Examination Minor Field I (3 credits)
HUMA 885C Comprehensive Examination Minor Field II (3 credits)
HUMA 886 Thesis Proposal with Defence (3 credits)
HUMA 890 Thesis (54 credits)Top© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
HumanitiesProgram
Doctor of/Doctorate in Philosophy (Humanities)Department of Humanities WebsiteConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424