http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/human-relations.htmlTrain the leaders of the future. Help people fulfill their potential. When you study human relations, your passion for people shapes you into an agent for social change. Expertise in human relationships in the community and the workplace sets you on a path towards the helping professions. Whether you want to build strong teams in the corporate world or get organized at a grassroots level, our Human Relations program gives you the tools to become a next-generation leader.In a curriculum that straddles the classroom and the outside community, you will hone your leadership and teamwork skills. You’ll also:Concordia’s hands-on approach provides a solid foundation for future graduate studies in such fields as human resource development and training, organization or community development, social work, and public or business administration. Students graduate with transferable skills that bring about empowerment, self-management and effective teamwork in a rapidly changing workplace.A Bachelor of Arts degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background.Program options:See requirements for each option in the Undergraduate Calendar.No specific courses are required beyond the DECAll applicants to the Specialization, Major and Minor in Human Relations programs are required to submit a Letter of Intent with their Concordia University admission application. This is your opportunity as a prospective student to express, in writing, why you wish to enter the Department of Applied Human Sciences. The letter should include:Special note: CEGEP graduates of Techniques de Loisirs (Dawson College), Special Care Counselling (Vanier College, Lasalle College), Social Services (Dawson College) and Correctional Technology (John Abbott College) may have credits applied to their degrees based on their course of study at CEGEP. Applicants will be informed of any credits awarded in their Offer of Admission.Minimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
 Consult the undergraduate calendar for a complete list of current courses.Human Relations alumni have sound knowledge in group dynamics and process, change management, interpersonal communications and how people learn. These are all transferable skills that are useful in a variety of areas that include:A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityHuman Relations (BA)Related programsKey resourcesJoin the ConversationDegree options
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Sample classes
                
            
                
					
                    After your degreeWhy study Human Relations?Program DetailsUnited States  studentsBachelor of Arts (BA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Cegep StudentsAdditional RequirementsMinimum Cut-off Averages