http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/individualized-program-ma-msc.htmlINDI is a unique program housed in the School of Graduate Studies that enables students to pursue individualized and interdisciplinary scholarly pursuits. INDI stands for individualized, interdisciplinary and independent. Pursuing INDI graduate study enables students to engage in research that could not be accomplished within a traditional disciplinary setting. An INDI degree can be anything you can imagine, provided you can develop a rigorous research question and identify three faculty members who are as enthusiastic about your research as you are. Learn more about projects pursued by current INDI students.Concordia is a dynamic, innovative institution uniquely positioned to enable cutting-edge cross-disciplinary research. These strengths allow INDI students to thrive using resources across faculties while studying in vibrant downtown Montreal.INDI students can be advised by any tenured faculty member within Concordia. Please use our Explore Research@Concordia tool to browse and search potential supervisors who match your research interest and needs.As part of their application proposal, prospective INDI students select 18 credits of coursework. With departmental permission, students can take any graduate course at the university, and are also eligible to take courses at partner institutions through CREPUQ's authorization agreement to transfer credits between Quebec universities.See a list of courses that have been approved in the past.Applicants must have a completed bachelor’s degree with high academic standing in a relevant disciplinary area or its equivalent.Applicants whose prior degrees are not from an English or French speaking university may be required to submit English language test scores (TOEFL or IELTS). Results must be sent directly to Concordia from the testing centre. For details, see language requirements.Application processApply online, and attach the following documents to the online application form:Mail the following documents to the Graduate Admissions Application Centre:Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Email: indi@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 3894Location: 
 1550 de Maisonneuve W., GM 930.03
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 1N2Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityIndividualized Program (MA, MSc)Why study at Concordia?
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty research interests
                
            
                
					
                    Sample classes
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            Contact usWhy pursue an Individualized Program?Program DetailsRelated ProgramsMaster of Arts (MA), Master of Science (MSc)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424