http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/encs/mechanical-industrial/programs/graduate/industrial-engineering-masc.htmlWith an international reputation and world-class research programs, this Department is at the forefront of research and graduate training in mechanical and industrial engineering in Canada. The success of the department is based on the research capabilities of the faculty members and graduate students whose excellence is acknowledged and fostered through funding from external sources. The Department’s internationally renowned faculty members, state-of-the-art laboratories and well established research centres and laboratories for industrial control, computer- aided vehicle engineering, composites and computational fluid dynamics, attract Canadian and foreign students from a diversity of cultures and backgrounds.The MASc program is a thesis-based program designed to provide students the opportunity to enhance specific areas of knowledge gained at the undergraduate level and to introduce them to research aimed at the acquisition of new scientific knowledge for the purpose of advancing the design of technological systems.Students interested in the course-work masters program should refer to the MEng Programs instead.Requirements for the Degree Admission Requirements. Applicants to the MASc program should hold a bachelor’s degree in engineering or equivalent with high standing. Consideration will also be given to candidates with a degree in a cognate area with high standing; such students may be required to enrol in an extended program. In particular, applicants with a bachelor’s degree in architecture will be considered for the MASc in Building Engineering. The Faculty Graduate Studies Committee will determine the acceptability of an applicant for admission to the program and may require an applicant to take specified undergraduate courses in order to qualify for acceptance. Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be required to take such courses in addition to their regular graduate program. Applicants with deficiencies in their undergraduate preparation may be required to take a qualifying program. An ability to write simple programs in a standard computer language will be assumed. Students lacking this skill will be required to register for a course prescribed by the Graduate Program Director. This course will be taken in addition to regular degree requirements.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Students must complete 45 credits as shown below:
 View Engineering Courses & descriptionsFaculty research in industrial engineering include:Faculty research in mechanical engineering include:Graduate students from the Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Department are invited to apply for Teaching Assistant positions. A minimal mark of A- in the course they are requesting to teach is needed. The priority level when assigning the graduate applicants is: Ph.D., M.A.Sc., and then M.Eng. Priority is to be given to students with good language abilities. Learn more about MIE Teaching Assistantships.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityIndustrial Engineering (MASc)Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE)
            
                Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE)
            Key resourcesJoin the conversationDegree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty research interests
                
            
                
					
                    Teaching and research assistantshipsWhy pursue a Master's in industrial engineering?Program detailsMaster of Applied Science (MASc)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424