http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/encs/mechanical-industrial/programs/graduate/industrial-engineering-phd.htmlIndustrial engineering involves the design, organization, implementation, and economic operations of integrated production and service systems using people, materials, and equipment. Industrial engineers are trained to provide the best productivity and quality of such systems.Concordia’s new industrial engineering PhD program is one of only two currently offered in Quebec. It is thesis-oriented and provides students with solid fundamental and theoretical knowledge, as well as substantial research experience for innovative system design and problem solving in various research areas, including operations research and its applications, transportation systems, supply chain management, scheduling, stochastic optimization, quality control and reliability, Lean systems design, human factors and safety, production planning and inventory control, revenue management, and product  design and development.Requirements for the DegreeAdmission Requirements. To be considered for admission on a full-time basis, applicants normally must hold a master’s degree or equivalent with high standing in engineering or computer science, or in a cognate discipline. Holders of a bachelor’s degree will, in general, be considered for admission to a master’s program only. After completion of a minimum of two terms of full-time study, they may, upon application, be considered by the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee for admission to a PhD program.To be considered for admission on a part-time basis, applicants must hold a master’s degree with high standing in engineering, computer science or a cognate discipline. Applicants should understand that admission is contingent not only upon a superior academic record, but also on the availability of a research supervisor, of relevant programs of study and research, as well as adequate laboratory and library facilities. Where applicable, an ability to write programs in a standard computer language will be assumed. Students lacking this skill will be required to register for appropriate courses.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.For degree requirements, please see above.Sample classesConsult the graduate calendar for a complete list of current courses.Course descriptions
 View Engineering Courses & descriptionsFaculty research in industrial engineering include:Graduate students from the Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Department are invited to apply for Teaching Assistant positions. A minimal mark of A- in the course they are requesting to teach is needed. The priority level when assigning the graduate applicants is: Ph.D., M.A.Sc., and then M.Eng. Priority is to be given to students with good language abilities. Learn more about MIE Teaching Assistantships.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityIndustrial Engineering (PhD)Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE)
            
                Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE)
            Key resourcesJoin the conversationDegree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Course curriculum
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty research interests
                
            
                
					
                    Teaching and research assistantshipsWhy pursue a doctorate in industrial engineering?Program detailsDoctorate (PhD)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424