http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/encs/mechanical-industrial/programs/graduate/industrial-engineering-meng.htmlWith an international reputation and world-class research programs, this Department is at the forefront of research and graduate training in mechanical and industrial engineering in Canada. The success of the department is based on the research capabilities of the faculty members and graduate students whose excellence is acknowledged and fostered through funding from external sources. The Department’s internationally renowned faculty members, state-of-the-art laboratories and well established research centres and laboratories for industrial control, computer- aided vehicle engineering, composites and computational fluid dynamics, attract Canadian and foreign students from a diversity of cultures and backgrounds.The MEng program is a course-based program designed to provide practicing engineers the opportunity to strengthen and extend knowledge they acquired at the undergraduate level, to further develop their analytical skills, and to enhance their ability to comprehend and solve complex and advanced technology concepts.Students interested in pursuing a doctorate should apply to the MASc program instead.To see full degree requirements, please visit the Graduate Calendar.Applicants to the MEng program must hold a bachelor's degree in engineering or equivalent with high standing.See full admission requirements for MEng programs in the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Students must complete 45 credits of course-work as described below:A student may take project courses (ENGR 6971, ENGR 6981, ENGR 6991) or the industrial training (ENCS 6931), replacing courses specified in Department Electives or courses specified in General Electives.† Students must obtain approval from the Aerospace Program Director for all the courses listed in Topic Area E11.
 View Engineering Courses & descriptionsProject. Depending on individual department requirements, students may choose to do one or more projects as part of their program. They do so by registering for one or more of the sequence ENGR 6971, 6981, 6991. Where students choose to carry out a multi-course project, the project will be graded by at least two professors.See project details and requirements in the Graduate CalendarGraduate students from the Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Department are invited to apply for Teaching Assistant positions. A minimal mark of A- in the course they are requesting to teach is needed. The priority level when assigning the graduate applicants is: Ph.D., M.A.Sc., and then M.Eng. Priority is to be given to students with good language abilities. Learn more about MIE Teaching Assistantships.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityIndustrial Engineering (MEng)Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE)
            
                Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE)
            Key resourcesJoin the conversationDegree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Project
                
            
                
					
                    Teaching and research assistantshipsWhy pursue a Master's in industrial engineering?Program detailsMaster of Engineering (MEng)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424