http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/services/instructional-technology.html
The John Molson School of Business has a tradition of leadership in adopting new technologies. CIT is the unit responsible for providing all levels of support for the school's IT services. These can be categorized as technical support, educational technology, systems services, and Research dataset support.

See below for some of the services provided by CIT.  The Educational Technology unit of CIT provides technical and pedagogical resources, training and support to faculty and staff at JMSB.  Some of the services that we provide are:- Course development assistance
- Recommendation and production of learning materials
- Production and distribution of instructional documents
- Assurance of Learning (AOL) guidance for AACSB accreditation
- Production of videos, audio recordings and video screen captures
- Formative Evaluation 
- Support for Peer Evaluation System
- Support for Learning Management Systems (i.e. Moodle)For more information, please contact:
Malcolm MacPhail at malcolm.macphail@concordia.ca or extension 2735 
Rhea Westover at rhea.westover@concordia.ca  or extension 4286. 

The desktop support provided covers the hardware, software, and the peripherals located in your MB office. The best way to place a support call is by either calling extension 7613, submitting a ticket using this webform, or emailing help@concordia.ca.Below is a sample of services provided:A full list of IT services available within the university through Instructional & Information Technology Services (IITS).The MB classrooms are supported by IITS. For all technical assistance, please contact the MB - IITS depot located on Subbasement level 2. CIT has worked with IITS to produce the attached PDF on how to operate the classroom technology.Survey and database services are offered to faculty and staff only. Contact CIT before commissioning work to be developed by a student so that we can properly support the end product.Services provided:© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityCentre for Instructional TechnologyJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessInstructional design
                
            
                
					
                    Desktop support
                
            
                
					
                    Classroom support
                
            
                
					
                    Survey & database developmentConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/instructional-technology.htmlThe diploma programs covers all of the areas in the MA Educational Technology, but can be completed in one calendar year of study.The Department of Education in the Faculty of Arts and Science provides responsible and innovative leadership in the development and dissemination of knowledge about education. Education is an extremely broad and diverse field of study. Departmental epistemologies draw from and contribute to other disciplines in the social science and humanities. They recognize the importance of human learning and performance at the individual (child to adult), defined group (local, cultural and corporate), community and national or global levels.The department’s teaching and research programs are situated on the continuum that links early childhood to aging adulthood. They incorporate methodologies that range from ethnographic to design research to controlled experimental methodologies.The department is known nationally and internationally for the exceptional quality of its graduate programs and offers Doctoral, Master’s and diploma level degrees in four disciplines:These programs focus on many different aspects of education, including history, philosophy, child development, second language learning, as well as fundamental theoretical issues, such as cross-cultural approaches to literacy, issues of differences in gender, class and race, critical theory and pedagogy and feminist critical pedagogy.

Faculty members are a diverse group of educators committed to excellence in teaching, research and community service. Their multidisciplinary pedagogical philosophies inform their teaching practices and their scholarly profiles attract a healthy level of external research funding (averaging $2.5 million annual). This funding provides financial support to many qualified graduate students who have the opportunity to work on groundbreaking research projects as research assistants.

Along with its emphasis on the communication of sound pedagogical principles and research approaches, the department values of equality, diversity and non-discrimination. Class sizes are kept purposefully small because faculty believe in careful mentoring and a constructivist approach to learning.

The retention rate of students is exceptionally high. Many students are enrolled on a part-time basis but complete degree requirements in a timely manner. Graduates enjoy high levels of employment in government service and industry.Program optionstudents enrolling in this 30 credit program may specialize in an area of their own professional interest by selecting courses which reflect this interest. Individualized programs of study may be designed in consultation with the student's advisor.Degree requirmentsGeneral requirementsEntry into the program requires a bachelor's degree with a major or the equivalent in any subject, and a GPA of at least 2.70. The possession of a Quebec Teacher's Certificate will be an additional prerequisite for those who wish to work in the Quebec school system. The program is open to full-time and part-time students without preference.Language proficiencyLanguage proficiencyFor students whose first language is not English or French, a test of English language proficiency is required. To fulfill this requirement you must provide one of the following: iBTOEFL (90+), or paper based TOEFL (577+), or IELTS (7.0+), or proof that you have achieved the level of Concordia's English 212 course (testing is available through Concordia's English Department) Please contact the department for further details.Application processApplicants must complete a Graduate Admission Application and submit supporting documents to the Graduate Admissions Application Centre. This includes:Questions?For all other questions contact the Graduate Advisor:
 Telephone: (514) 848.2424 ext. 2030
Email: etec@education.concordia.ca*Fall: Late applications may be considered until April 30.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Our research interests include:DR. PHILIP ABRAMI
Classroom processes (e.g., cooperative learning); research design and methodology; research synthesis; technology in the schools Students are encouraged to visit the web site of the Centre for the Study of Learning and Performance (CSLP) for an overview of some of the research being undertaken by faculty.DR. ROBERT M. BERNARD
Research on distance education and online learning; research on critical thinking' research on technology integration in education' comparative research on instructional methodologies; research design and quantitative methods; systematic review and meta-analysis.DR. SAUL CARLINER
Research on distance education and online learning; research on critical thinking' research on technology integration in education' comparative research on instructional methodologies; research design and quantitative methods; systematic review and meta-analysis.DR. ANN-LOUISE DAVIDSON
Changes brought by ICT in society and in the educational system; relationships between ICT and pedagogy; the evolution of teaching practices through the use of digital technologies; impact of digital technologies on the social integration of minorities and marginalized populations; the use of mobile technologies in a problem-based learning approach; communities of practice and professional learning communities; collaborative action research.DR. RICHARD F. SCHMID
Technology integration, particularly as applied to post-secondary education and early literacy; learning strategies; performance support systems; computer-mediated communication supporting collaborative learning and performance.DR. STEVEN SHAW
Educational computing; Pen-based computing and digital ink; learning content management; knowledge management.DR. VIVEK VENKATESH
Informative retrieval; self-regulation in online learning environments; course management systems; social computing technologies.Email: SGordon@education.concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2030Location: 
 1610 Ste-Catherine Street W., FG 5141
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3H 2S2Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityInstructional Technology (GrDip)Why study at Concordia?
                
            
                
					
                    Program options & degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty research areas
                
            Contact usProgram overviewProgram detailsRelated ProgramsGraduate Diploma (GrDip)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424