http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/events/artsci/2016/05/19/international-behavioural-trials-network-conference.htmlThe upcoming International Behavioural Trials Network 2016 conference features speakers, workshops and events all generating interest among students and researchers alike. Here is a preview of what to expect:Drs. Susan Michie (UK) and Grégory Ninot (France) will each address current challenges in trial development, namely surrounding behaviour change taxonomy and the need for a common language in non-pharmacological intervention.Drs. Susan Czajkowski (USA) and Ken Freedland (USA) will each address methodological questions. Dr. Czajkowski  will talk about the Orbit Model for trial development and Dr. Freeland will address the problems related to attention control groups in behavioral intervention research. Dr. Jean Bourbeau (Canada) will discuss trial fidelity and quality control strategies and Dr. Peter Kaufmann (USA) will address the unintended influences of participant engagement in behavioural RCTs.Drs. Paul Montgomery (UK) and Tim Caulfield (Canada) will conclude the conference’s plenary day with their presentations about new measures in grading the quality of behavioural trials and the power of the media in health messaging.The conference’s workshop day will have international experts (e.g., Drs. Linda Collins, Kim Lavoie, Robert Reid, Tavis Campbell) exploring topics related to assessing the quality of clinical trials, smoking cessation interventions,motivational communication, treatment adherence strategies, and optimization trials.To be held in the very heart of Montréal’s festival district in UQAM’s newest campus quarters, the conference will prove a fantastic opportunity to network and acquire new knowledge but also a wonderful chance to enjoy the city and its world-class venues alongside new friends and colleagues under sunny spring skies.This will be a great opportunity for the community to hear from a series of outstanding international speakers related to the development and testing of behavioural interventions. In addition to a full day of plenary sessions there will be a series of interactive workshops where leaders in the field will provide practical support and advice.Registration is open until May 9. View the registration page for full details.© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
                        International Behavioural Trials Network ConferenceDepartment of Exercise Science
            
                Department of Exercise ScienceOther DatesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/events/artsci/2016/05/19/international-behavioural-trials-network-conference.htmlThe upcoming International Behavioural Trials Network 2016 conference features speakers, workshops and events all generating interest among students and researchers alike. Here is a preview of what to expect:Drs. Susan Michie (UK) and Grégory Ninot (France) will each address current challenges in trial development, namely surrounding behaviour change taxonomy and the need for a common language in non-pharmacological intervention.Drs. Susan Czajkowski (USA) and Ken Freedland (USA) will each address methodological questions. Dr. Czajkowski  will talk about the Orbit Model for trial development and Dr. Freeland will address the problems related to attention control groups in behavioral intervention research. Dr. Jean Bourbeau (Canada) will discuss trial fidelity and quality control strategies and Dr. Peter Kaufmann (USA) will address the unintended influences of participant engagement in behavioural RCTs.Drs. Paul Montgomery (UK) and Tim Caulfield (Canada) will conclude the conference’s plenary day with their presentations about new measures in grading the quality of behavioural trials and the power of the media in health messaging.The conference’s workshop day will have international experts (e.g., Drs. Linda Collins, Kim Lavoie, Robert Reid, Tavis Campbell) exploring topics related to assessing the quality of clinical trials, smoking cessation interventions,motivational communication, treatment adherence strategies, and optimization trials.To be held in the very heart of Montréal’s festival district in UQAM’s newest campus quarters, the conference will prove a fantastic opportunity to network and acquire new knowledge but also a wonderful chance to enjoy the city and its world-class venues alongside new friends and colleagues under sunny spring skies.This will be a great opportunity for the community to hear from a series of outstanding international speakers related to the development and testing of behavioural interventions. In addition to a full day of plenary sessions there will be a series of interactive workshops where leaders in the field will provide practical support and advice.Registration is open until May 9. View the registration page for full details.© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
                        International Behavioural Trials Network ConferenceEvents
            
                EventsOther DatesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/events/artsci/2016/05/19/international-behavioural-trials-network-conference.htmlThe upcoming International Behavioural Trials Network 2016 conference features speakers, workshops and events all generating interest among students and researchers alike. Here is a preview of what to expect:Drs. Susan Michie (UK) and Grégory Ninot (France) will each address current challenges in trial development, namely surrounding behaviour change taxonomy and the need for a common language in non-pharmacological intervention.Drs. Susan Czajkowski (USA) and Ken Freedland (USA) will each address methodological questions. Dr. Czajkowski  will talk about the Orbit Model for trial development and Dr. Freeland will address the problems related to attention control groups in behavioral intervention research. Dr. Jean Bourbeau (Canada) will discuss trial fidelity and quality control strategies and Dr. Peter Kaufmann (USA) will address the unintended influences of participant engagement in behavioural RCTs.Drs. Paul Montgomery (UK) and Tim Caulfield (Canada) will conclude the conference’s plenary day with their presentations about new measures in grading the quality of behavioural trials and the power of the media in health messaging.The conference’s workshop day will have international experts (e.g., Drs. Linda Collins, Kim Lavoie, Robert Reid, Tavis Campbell) exploring topics related to assessing the quality of clinical trials, smoking cessation interventions,motivational communication, treatment adherence strategies, and optimization trials.To be held in the very heart of Montréal’s festival district in UQAM’s newest campus quarters, the conference will prove a fantastic opportunity to network and acquire new knowledge but also a wonderful chance to enjoy the city and its world-class venues alongside new friends and colleagues under sunny spring skies.This will be a great opportunity for the community to hear from a series of outstanding international speakers related to the development and testing of behavioural interventions. In addition to a full day of plenary sessions there will be a series of interactive workshops where leaders in the field will provide practical support and advice.Registration is open until May 9. View the registration page for full details.© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
                        International Behavioural Trials Network ConferenceDepartment of Exercise Science
            
                Department of Exercise ScienceOther DatesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424