http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/students/success/career-planning-services/interview-guide.htmlInterviewing can be tough, but being well-prepared can make all the difference in the world. These tips will help you develop great interview skills. For a more in-depth explanation on how to properly prepare for an interview, please review our CAPS interview guide.For additional help, you may also review our French interview guide.
The outcome of many interviews is decided during the first 10 seconds of the introduction. Greet the employer with a firm handshake, eye contact and a smile. Project an enthusiastic and professional image from the start. Characteristics that contribute to a professional image are:Arrive early to make a good impression, and start of on the right track. This show’s appreciation for the employers time and allows you enough time to complete paperwork if required.Take an active part in the interview. Ask the employer to describe the position, or a typical day on the job. Listen carefully and mentally note each duty mentioned. Focus on your related experience and training in your responses.Try to relate your background and experience to the questions being asked. To fit the employer’s specifications, include factors that qualify you for the position.Using examples of special achievements will help the employer get a sense of how successful you will be at handling the job.A major factor in hiring situations is how well the employer gets along with the applicant. To develop a good rapport, speak clearly, listen carefully and show interest by smiling, nodding agreement, or commenting after the employer has finished speaking. Maintaining eye contact while the employer is talking is also very important.  Pay attention to your body language, the employer is! Many employers evaluate applicants by the certain questions they ask. Employers like specific questions about the nature of the job, the company’s plans/goals, and the nature of the position in question.Employers ask this question for a number of reasons. They might want to see how well the candidate can express themselves, they might want to gage your personality or to know important information about you. Treat this as an open ended question that could lead to specific questions later. Instead of talking about your childhood, family or personal ambitions, keep it professional. Mention specific accomplishments that show your abilities and determination to succeed in the position. Your answers should tell the employer why you would be an asset to the company, not why you need a job.Many employers feel that a strong desire for the position is just as important as your ability to do the job. A very effective interviewing technique is to simply ask for the job. One way to do this is to ask the employer if they see you performing the job. If the answer is yes, say “Great! When can I start?”An employer might bring up the salary question in an interview. If they ask how much you are looking for a safe response would be “I’m very interest in the position, I’d like to earn as much as I am qualified to earn. How much would you offer a candidate with similar qualifications?” If the employer makes a firm offer and you want the job, you can accept on the spot. If you’re doubtful, or undecided, ask for a day to think about it. Never refuse any offer of employment until you have had time to think about it.Employers often ask common questions. Find out what they are, why they ask them, and what they're looking for.The question behind this question may be:Suggestions:
Keep it brief, avoid getting into details. You can quickly cover your youth, education, work experience and present situation. Focus on the skills you have developed that are relevant to the job.Return to questionsThe question behind this question may be:Suggestions:
Show how you could solve a problem for the company by using a relevant example from your past. This will help the interviewer “see” you in action. If you have little experience, sell your education and give examples of situations that demonstrate your key strengths (motivation, energy, positive attitude,…).Return to questionsThe questions behind this questions may be:Suggestions:
Choose from your top five self-management skills [PDF] (Qualities, Traits) those that you believe are most important for the job and the organization.Return to questionsThe question behind this question may be:Suggestions:
Never say you have none! Never admit a weakness that could affect your ability to do the job well. Never disclose personal issues. Choose your weakness before the interview. Limit your answer to one weakness and say what you did in order to overcome it. Overcoming a weakness is actually developing a strength.Return to questionsThe question behind this question may be:Suggestions:
Find out in what salary range the job is situated. Never discuss salary before you receive a job offer. Mention that you trust that if an offer comes, it will be reasonable. When the interviewer insists, answer the question using a range.

Return to questionsThe question behind this question may be:Suggestions:
If you apply for positions that match your true needs, this should be an easy question. Link your interest and enthusiasm to the skills and knowledge that are most relevant for the position. Mention what you like about the organization and the people who work there.

Return to questionsThe question behind this question may be:Suggestions:
Prepare for behavioral questions by compiling key moments from your past that describe well how you handled different situations. For example, other possible behavioral questions might be:Return to questionsThe question behind this question may be:Suggestions:
Focus on tackling the challenges within the job to which you are applying. For the longer term, you can underline how you wish to develop your career by developing new skills and knowledge that are meaningful both to you and to the organization.SGW: (514) 848-2424, ext. 7345
(514) 848-2853  Sir George Williams Campus
 EN-109 (see map)Loyola Campus
 (Service available Wednesday and no service during summer) 
            AD-103 (see map)
 © Concordia UniversityLearning support
New students
Career and planning services
 Mentors
 Funding & awards
 Contact us
Appointments
How to register for workshops
About the Student Success CentreConcordia UniversityInterview skillsStudent hub
            
                Student hub
            Career and Planning Services (CAPS)Join the conversationCommon interview questionsSmile, be enthusiastic and arrive earlyAsk the employer to describe a typical day on the jobExplain how your past experience and qualifications make you an ideal candidatePay attention to your body languageAsk meaningful and relative questions about the job "Tell me about yourself"If you want the job, ask for itSalary realityQ. Tell me about yourself.Q. Why should I hire you?Q. What are your major strengths?Q. What are your major weaknesses?Q. What salary do you expect to receive?Q. What prompted your decision to apply for this position?Q. Could you please give me an example from your past that describes when you took initiative?Q. Where do you see yourself five years from now?Contact usLocation and HoursConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424