http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/releases/2015/11/16/introduction-spotlight-aerospace.htmlMontreal, November 16, 2015 —  From November 23 to 25, Montreal will host the first International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) World Aviation Forum on Aviation Partnerships for Sustainable Development.Leading up to this event, Concordia will highlight its leadership in aerospace research and training. Students and alumni will explain in their own words what competitive advantage they gained from working with the Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design & Innovation (CIADI).Profiles of researchers affiliated with the institute and videos of international experts in the field of aerospace will be made available — all this at a moment when aerospace at Concordia soars to new heights.Concordia University has a strong history of research and education in aerospace. Created in 2001, the Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design and Innovation (CIADI) was the first institute of its kind in Montreal.It’s designed to promote awareness and provide cutting-edge know-how through the development, implementation and management of collaborative and interdisciplinary research. CIADI has grown to include more than 40 faculty members from across the university. Their research projects touch on all facets of the aerospace industry.

The bulk of CIADI's activities take place in Concordia’s Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science (ENCS). The faculty provides eight fully accredited professional certificate programs and undergraduate programs, and 25 graduate programs to some 7,000 students. These are grounded in six departments and two institutes, including CIADI.

Research activities and consulting projects are carried out in eight state-of-the-art, world-class facilities, in the following areas:  structures; materials and manufacturing; avionics, control and embedded systems; MEMS and micro sensors; modeling and simulation; power, energy and product development and the supply chain;  air transportation and aviation management; and space and autonomous systems.

In supporting industry-driven research needs and enriching the learning experience of its students, CIADI provides its industry partners with the highly qualified personnel they need. In 2014 alone, CIADI worked with eight industry partners from around the globe and 84 students from all levels of academia. The institute is currently working on 73 industry-driven research projects.  In the last 12 months, Research in the aerospace field at Concordia has garnered over $1.2 million in funding.The institute will continue to provide solutions to the challenges faced by the aerospace industry by using a hands-on, interdisciplinary approach to train tomorrow’s innovators and leaders in the field. Recently, CIADI expanded its mandate to include not only education activities, but research as well, and has expanded beyond ENCS to the university at large. The mission is to establish aeronautics and space research and education priorities for Concordia University, and promote them through a coordinated aerospace umbrella organisation. Visit the Media Relations aerospace multimedia hub daily for content leading up to the ICAo forum.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityAerospace at Concordia soars to new heightsNews
            
                NewsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424