http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/judaic-studies.htmlThe Religion Department has a special strength in Judaic Studies. The MA in Judaic Studies is supported by six full-time faculty who study Judaism, all recognized for their research achievements.Students pursuing an MA in Judaic Studies receive training in Jewish History covering the ancient, medieval, modern, and contemporary periods.  In addition, students have the opportunity to specialize in one or more of the program’s core areas of strength:The study of Judaism at Concordia is immeasurably broadened by training in the wider concepts and methods of the study of Religion and by intense exposure to and interaction with the study of related religious traditions. The student experience is enhanced further by extracurricular activities in Judaic Studies, including a student-run seminar, non-credit language courses, as well as two institutes that provide support and fellowship opportunities.  Faculty members provide mentoring for every student, to ensure success in the program and in pursuing subsequent career objectives.Option AMA in Judaic Studies with Thesis: for students seeking in-depth research expertise in a particular topic, generally for students who wish to pursue a doctoral degree.Option BMA in Judaic Studies course intensive: for students seeking professional development and for students who wish to pursue a doctoral degree.Students initially enroll in Option B but may later apply to transfer to Option A.MA candidates for the Judaic Studies program should have a strong undergraduate transcript and background in the study of religion.  Current Concordia University students are encouraged to discuss the programs with the Religion Department undergraduate advisors.All applications must be submitted online.*Fall: Late applications will be considered until May 1, without funding.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures.At the Graduate level, students tend to focus primarily on one period of Jewish history (Ancient, Medieval, Modern, or Contemporary), yet their studies are also organized around core areas of study in the department which draw on the research strengths in the department, and facilitate studying the breadth of Jewish history - as well as cross-tradition comparative study - through a particular lens.For an overview of Judaic Studies curriculum, including Canadian Jewish Studies, visit our traditions page.Please note: Knowledge of Hebrew is a requirement of this program. Students who wish to go on to do advanced study are advised to begin further language study as soon as possible. Language credits are not considered as part of the MA. Funding opportunities include entrance awards, teaching assistantships, research assistantships and fellowships. There are also awards offered by Concordia University, the Concordia Institute for Canadian Jewish Studies and the Azrieli Institute of Israel Studies.See more graduate funding opportunities.Please contact the undergraduate advisors or the Graduate Program Director, M.A. Judaic Studies, for more information on available fellowships.For further information:
Tina Montandon
Graduate Program Assistant
Telephone: 514-848-2424, ext. 2077
E-mail:
Tina.Montandon@concordia.caDr. Norman Ravvin 
 Graduate Program Director
Office: R-203
 Telephone: (514) 848-2424, ext. 2068
E-mail:
 ravv@videotron.caEmail: Tina.Montandon@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2077Location: 
 2060 Mackay, FA 101
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 2J1Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityJudaic Studies (MA)Why pursue a master's in Judaic studies?Key resourcesProgram options
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Program Requirements and Forms
                
            
                
					
                    Fellowships and funding
                
            Contact usProgram DetailsRelated ProgramsMaster of Arts (MA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Important formsFellowships