http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/leisure-sciences.htmlDesign community programs and activities that help people improve their quality of life and health and have more fun. In a culture that values productivity and work, recreation plays a key role in maintaining a healthy work­­–life balance. When you study Leisure Sciences, you learn administrative and programming skills that help you develop leisure programs for all ages.The curriculum straddles the classroom and the community; real-life experiences give you the opportunity to hone your leadership and teamwork skills. You’ll also:Concordia’s hands-on approach provides a solid foundation for future graduate studies in such fields as recreation and leisure studies, community or organization development, and public or business administration. Students graduate with transferable skills that bring about empowerment, self-management and effective teamwork in rapidly changing workplaces.A Bachelor of Arts degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background.Program options:See full degree requirements for both options in the Undergraduate CalendarNo specific courses are required beyond the DECAll applicants to the Specialization and Major in Leisure Sciences programs are required to submit a Letter of Intent with their Concordia University admission application. This is your opportunity as a prospective student to express, in writing, why you wish to enter the Department of Applied Human Sciences. The letter should include:Special note: CEGEP graduates of Techniques de Loisirs (Dawson College), Special Care Counselling (Vanier College, Lasalle College), Social Services (Dawson College) and Correctional Technology (John Abbott College) may have credits applied to their degrees based on their course of study at CEGEP. Applicants will be informed of any credits awarded in their Offer of Admission.
Minimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
 Consult the undergraduate calendar for a complete list of current courses.Leisure Sciences alumni have established careers in a variety of areas that include:A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityLeisure Sciences (BA)Related programsKey resourcesJoin the ConversationDegree options
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Sample classes
                
            
                
					
                    After your degreeWhy study Leisure Sciences?Program DetailsUnited States  studentsBachelor of Arts (BA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Cegep StudentsAdditional RequirementsMinimum Cut-off Averages