http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2016/11/24/let-fine-arts-students-fill-your-shopping-bags-this-holiday-season.html
As the holiday season kicks into full swing, people generally have two things on their minds: where to buy gifts and where to get social.Concordia’s Faculty of Fine Arts can take care of both.If you’re shopping for friends and family who don’t want presents from big box stores, fine arts students have you covered.From November 23 to 25, the Concordia Ceramic Student Association will sell their wares in the Engineering, Computer Science and Visual Arts Integrated Complex (EV) outside the FOFA Gallery.Meanwhile, the Fibres Student Association has two events, on November 28 and 30. Check out their holiday sale in the EV Building outside the FOFA Gallery. You’ll find scrunchies, cards, handmade patches and more. Or, if you’ve got a special green-thumbed friend, attend a macramé plant hanger workshop at the Concordia Greenhouse.On December 2, pick up a fine arts journal and dance the night away at the Interfold Magazine launch, or buy a custom colouring book from art education students at the Wandering Collective’s ALINEA vernissage.Plus, on December 6 and 7, the Fine Arts Student Alliance (FASA) will hold a multi-club art sale for the first time.“Over the years, we noticed many student organizations fundraising around the holiday season. Some were more successful than others,” says FASA representative Jeremy Blinkhorn.“We wanted to create an event where all groups could come together over two days and attract a diverse community to purchase student art.”The FASA sale takes place on the seventh floor of the Henry F. Hall (H) Building, outside the Concordia Student Union offices.The following groups and projects will be in attendance:
Food and beverages will be sold from the Hive Cafe and Cafe X.And while the Painting and Drawing Student Association won’t be holding a sale, they will host an end-of-term exhibition in the Visual Arts (VA) Building on December 9. Who knows — if something catches your eye, maybe you can make an offer!After a holiday 5 à 7, why not bring friends to an end-of-term dance show, theatre production or concert?Between December 8 and 11, second- and third-year dance students will perform original pieces. Each evening showcase runs approximately 90 minutes to two hours, including a 15-minute intermission. Tickets are sold at the door.From November 30 to December 4, theatre students perform Caryl Churchill’s play Love and Information at the Cazalet Theatre, located in the F.C. Smith Building on the Loyola Campus. On December 3, the Neighbourhood Theatre class will give short performances as part of a residence with the Right to the City initiative in Pointe-Saint-Charles. Finally, choose from no less than seven concerts by Concordia music students, taking place between November 25 and December 15. They’re all happening at the Oscar Peterson Concert Hall starting at 7:30 p.m.Visit the music calendar for full event details and choose from jazz or chamber choirs, big band, jazz improvisational groups and more.
Make your holiday plans with the help of Concordia’s event calendar. Have a university event to promote? Submit a listing today. 
        ‘Swim in the realm of the possible’
    
        10 reasons to study fine arts at Concordia
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityHoliday shopping with a twist: macramé plant holders, dance shows and moreFaculty of Fine Arts
            
                Faculty of Fine Arts
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsLatest storiesMost popularOPINION: Big Pharma’s troubles are good news for innovationConcordia receives funding for 5 Canada Research ChairsThe fight against fake newsConcordia receives $2 million to advance smart-grid technology‘Student success is more gratifying than any prize’13 essential tips for exam successTo nap or not to nap? Sleep tips for ConcordiansJason Camlot wins the Donald Gray Prize for best Victorian Studies essay‘We are conducting research in a living lab’What's it like to meet  the Oracle of Omaha?Give the gift of student art
All done shopping? Check out these student performancesFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424