http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/msc/program-details/management.htmlThe Master of Science (MSc) in Management is designed for students who wish to enhance their research expertise in the areas of human resources and strategic management. The curriculum focuses on developing knowledge about current management theories and skills in the tools and methods used to conduct advanced research in an organizational setting. The structure of the program allows candidates to produce the kind of research that is becoming increasingly necessary in contemporary organizations or lead toward advanced graduate studies.

The MSc in Management prepares students for various careers. For those who wish to pursue a career in business or other organizations, the program prepares graduates to assume staff or analyst positions in Human Resources, Change Management, and Strategic Planning, or to work as consultants. The program also serves as an excellent stepping stone for those wishing to pursue doctoral studies in Management or industrial and Organizational Psychology.We welcome applications from business majors and those who have majored in psychology, sociology, and other non-business areas.
Learn more about admissionsThe MSc program is a 45-credit program offered on a full-time or part-time basis.4 specialized seminars (electives)Thesis defenceThis seminar is the first of three seminars that together provide an in depth understanding of the modern practice of personnel and human resource management. This seminar will provide the analytical and conceptual tools needed to effectively staff organizations with qualified employees. The main areas of coverage include: strategic human resource planning, task and job analysis, and the recruitment, selection and placement of qualified applicants. In addressing these topics, attention will focus on techniques for developing valid and reliable predictors of employee effectiveness which address both the strategic needs of the organization and the legal and employment equity requirements of contemporary Quebec and Canadian organizations.This seminar will provide the theory, concepts, and techniques necessary for the effective long-term development of employees. Areas covered include: training (needs analysis, program design, delivery, administration and evaluation), employee career development, organizational socialization and entry practices, career paths, strategic responses to technological change and employee obsolescence, downsizing, relocation, and retirement.Provides knowledge of human motivation and compensation systems as they affect organizational processes and behavior. Emphasis will be on major theories of human motivation and on the relation between motivational processes and personal and organizational outcomes. The effects of evaluation, compensation and reward systems on motivation will also be discussed.This course is a research-oriented seminar, in which we will explore a number of different theoretical perspectives on organizations and organizational environments. The primary aim of the seminar is to introduce students to an understanding of how organizational scholars have conceptualized and studied organizations as social systems and how these social systems interact with and are embedded in the context of an external environment. Particular attention is given to how organizations can be understood, both internally and in relation to the environment, as social structures composed of relationships, interdependencies, and social-cultural institutions. At the end of the seminar, students would have acquired a sophisticated understanding of the social and social cognitive context through which behaviour by people in organizations is both facilitated and constrained.This seminar explores the interaction of globalization and the organization. It explores three levels of analysis: (1) the broad institutional environment, (2) the organization itself, and (3) human. The emphasis is on developing analytical assessments of drivers and outcomes of globalization.The primary objective of this course is to provide a theoretical and practical overview of individual performance from the perspective of the field of human resource management and industrial/organizational psychology. The course is meant to be prescriptive rather than simply descriptive. This course will cover the following: the challenge of defining individual performance in organizations, how to measure individual performance, and how to use performance evaluations to positively influence the future behaviours of employees.This course will review the important developments in administrative and behavioural thinking and focus on the work of management scholars who have made significant contributions to the practice of management. The course will span the various levels of organization analysis (individual, group, organization and environment) and a variety of perspectives on organizational behaviour, organizational theory and administrative thought. Students are expected to understand and be able to critically assess the impact of concepts, theories, and scholarly contributions of material covered.This seminar is designed to introduce students to several multivariate analysis techniques with emphasis on the practical use of these tools in business research. Techniques that will be covered in this course include MANOVA, discriminant analysis, principal components and factor analysis, canonical correlation analysis and multidimensional scaling. The objective of the seminar is to provide a fundamental understanding of the nature, power, and the limitations of multivariate statistical techniques.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityManagementJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessAdmissions
                
            
                
					
                    Program structure & recommended MSc program plan
                
            
                    MSCA 641   Organizational Staffing   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MSCA 642   Employee Development   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MSCA 643   Motivation, Evaluation, Compensation and Rewards   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MSCA 645   Organizational Theory and Design   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MSCA 652A   International Management   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MSCA 652M   Individual Performance in Organizations   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MSCA 652T   Administrative Theory   (3.0 credits)
                
                    MSCA 683   Multivariate Data Analysis   (3.0 credits)Management seminarsPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notesPrerequisites & notes
Other seminarsPrerequisites & notesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Program structure: Year 1Program structure: Year 2http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/about/departments/management.htmlThe Management Department takes a broad view of the discipline, studying it from multiple perspectives, mainly organizational behaviour, strategy, human resource management, entrepreneurship, and business law.BComm Management Major
HRM Co-op ProgramBComm HRM MajorJohn Molson MBA ProgramMSc in ManagementPhD Program Management SpecializationDobson PracticumManuela Dohmen, MB 13.117
Tel: 514-848-242, ext. 2927
dohmen@jmsb.concordia.caCatherine Sarrazin, MB 13.115
Tel: 514-848-2424, ext. 2924
catherine.sarrazin@concordia.caMB 13.106
Tel: 514-848-2424, ext. 2920
MB 13.108
 Tel: 514-848-2424, ext. 2905© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityManagementJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            NewsContact usConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Department CoordinatorDepartment AssistantPart-time Faculty Office