http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/mathematics-statistics-phd.htmlThe principal aim of the Ph.D. program is to enable students  to attain levels of mastery in one of the Department's areas of specializaiton, commensurate with carrying on independent mathematical research at a high level.  These areas are listed below.  Our Department has over thirty faculty members who specialize in these areas, and every year visiting and research professors, post-doctoral fellows, and adjunct faculty join the Department to collaborate on research and sometimes teach specialized courses. In addition to the courses offered at Concordia University, students can take advantage of the Institut des sciences mathématiques (ISM), an organization which facilitates students taking courses at any of its other member universities in Montreal and across Quebec.Mathematics and Statistics: actuarial mathematics, algebra, analysis, applied mathematics, dynamical systems, financial mathematics, geometry, mathematical physics, number theory, probability or statistics.Requirements for the DegreeComprehensive Examination. The comprehensive examination is composed of the following two parts:Part A (6 credits)
This is a written examination, consisting of two parts. The first part of the Comprehensive A examination is to test the candidate’s general knowledge of fundamental mathematical concepts. It will normally be completed within one year (3 terms) of the candidate’s entry into the program or the equivalent of part-time study. The second part of the Comprehensive A examination tests the candidate’s knowledge of topics in his or her area of specialization. The material will be chosen from the list of course descriptions given by the Graduate Studies Committee in consultation with the candidate’s research supervisor and the student’s Advisory Committee. Candidates are allowed at most one failure in the Part A examination.Admission Requirements. Candidates will be selected on the basis of their past academic record, letters of recommendation and the relevance of the proposed area of research to the areas of specialization of the Department. The normal requirement for admission to the program is a MSc degree, with high standing in Mathematics or an allied discipline from a recognized university. Exceptional candidates who have successfully completed one-year’s study at the Master’s level may, upon approval by the Graduate Studies Committee, be exempted from the required completion of the Master’s degree and admitted directly into the PhD program.Your completed application will include:Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures. Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Consult the graduate calendar for a complete list of current courses.Email: grad.mathstat@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 3250Location: 
 1400 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W., LB 901-4
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 2V8Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityMathematics (PhD)Faculty research interests
                
            
                
					
                    Degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application process
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a doctorate in mathematics and statistics?Program DetailsRelated ProgramsDoctorate (PhD)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424