http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/mathematics-statistics-mamsc.htmlThe goal of the MA/MSc program is to provide students with basic knowledge sufficient for undertaking doctoral study, as well as applying mathemtical expertise in industry should doctoral studies not be pursued.  Students generally follow a program tailored to their individual needs and interests, with either a thesis or a project option, and many receive financial support through fellowships or teaching and research assistantships.  Master's students may also avail themselves of the Institut des sciences mathématiques (ISM).Mathematics and Statistics: actuarial mathematics, algebra, analysis, applied mathematics, dynamical systems, financial mathematics, geometry, mathematical physics, number theory, probability or statistics.Students may enter one of the two options below. The choice of the option, the selection of courses and the topic of the thesis, must be approved by the Graduate Program Director.Students choose one of the following fields of study:Admission Requirements. Applicants must have a Bachelor’s degree with Honours in Mathematics, or equivalent. Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be required to take up to 12 undergraduate credits in addition to and as a part of the regular graduate program. Promising candidates who lack the equivalent of an Honours degree in Mathematics may be admitted after having completed a qualifying program.Your completed application will include:Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures. Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Consult the graduate calendar for a complete list of current courses.Email: grad.mathstat@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 3250Location: 
 1400 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W., LB 901-4
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 2V8Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityMathematics & Statistics (MA, MSc)Faculty research interests
                
            
                
					
                    Program options & degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application process
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a Master's in mathematics and statistics?Program DetailsRelated ProgramsMaster of Arts (MA), Master of Science (MSc)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424