http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/co-op/mba.htmlThe MBA Cooperative Education program offers students the opportunity to participate in paid internships in Canada, the US or abroad, for one semester or more. The Co-op program is a non-credit option and is offered only to JMSB MBA students who:Co-op students may complete a minimum of one work term (four months) and a maximum of three work terms (12 months). They must return to full-time study for their last term.Students can opt into the MBA Co-op program after meeting the eligibility criteria listed above.

The price of the MBA Co-op program is $185 CDN per semester until graduation, including academic (course work) semesters.Visit Concordia Institute for Co-operative Education for more information.Learn more about the MBA program features.See our coordinates, and staff list© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityMBAJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessContact usConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/mba.html
Important note: The new John Molson MBA (full-time & part-time) will begin in Fall 2017. Students starting in January 2017 can take advantage of the opportunity to get a head start on the exciting new 45-credit MBA program. A transition plan is in place for current MBA students, including those admitted into the current 57-credit MBA program for Winter 2017.Average age: 29
 Average work experience: 5 years
 Average GMAT score: 623
 Average GPA: 3.37
 Percentage of women students: 31%
 Percentage of international students: 21%
  Percentage of grads employed 3 months after graduation: 87.5%After graduation international students may be eligible for a 3 year work permit in Canada.
To learn more consult: www.cic.gc.caShastri Indo-Canadian Institute recently announced Québec Tuition Fee Exemption for Indian Students, enabling Indian students to study in Québec universities on Québec domestic feesFor details please visit: http://www.sici.org.in/index.php?page=gao-for-indian-scholarsAttend an info session/eventConnect with a recruiterDownload program brochureContact us© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityMaster of Business Administration (full-time & part-time MBA)John Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            Program detailsGet startedEventsJoin the conversationStudy full-time or part-time and develop the kind of big-picture business thinking that employers want.Practical. Flexible. Experiential.Program profileDiverse in so many waysThis new 45-credit offering by the John Molson School of Business is a refresh of JMSB’s flagship program which has been consistently recognized in international rankings.Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424APPLICATIONS FOR FALL 2017 ARE NOW OPEN!International StudentsQuébec Tuition Fee Exemption for Indian StudentsCountry / Region of origin
Educational backgroundhttp://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/calendar/current/jmsb/mba.htmlAdmission Requirements. Applicants for the John Molson MBA must have obtained a bachelor’s degree in high standing, or qualifications accepted as equivalent by the School of Graduate Studies, and a minimum of two years full-time work experience. Applicants considered for the accelerated MBA must have obtained an undergraduate business degree within the last six years with a cumulative grade point average (CGPA) of 3.30. Applicants to the above programs are evaluated according to the following five criteria: undergraduate grades; Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT) score; work experience; detailed evaluations from employers and former university instructors; and a letter of intent.Proficiency in English or French. Applicants whose first language is not English or French, and who are not Canadian citizens or landed immigrants, must achieve a satisfactory performance in the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) before being considered for admission. This requirement will be waived for foreign students who have completed their undergraduate degrees at a university where English or French is the language of instruction.Requirements for the DegreeMBA Option for Diploma in Chartered Accountancy Students. Students in good academic standing who meet the admission requirements of the MBA Program, and who have completed the requirements for the Diploma in Chartered Accountancy Program, may be granted advanced standing for up to 30 credits upon admission to the MBA Program. Students having completed the course work in the Diploma in Chartered Accountancy Program and having been admitted to the MBA Program will be required to take the following courses:MBA 606 Managerial Economics 
 MBA 609 Organizational Behaviour
 MBA 610 Marketing Management
 MBA 618 National and International Economics 
 MBA 622 Business Policy and Strategy
 MBA 625 Managing Strategic Action
 MBA 691 Business Ethics
 + 2 electivesNote: Students who have had their Diploma conferred will not receive transfer credits to the MBA Program. Course exemptions may be granted, but they must be replaced by alternative courses.Students who have completed the course work in the Graduate Certificate in Management Accounting Program will be required to complete the following courses (total 36 credits):MBA 606 Managerial Economics
 MBA 608 Managerial Statistics
 MBA 609 Organizational Behaviour
 MBA 610 Marketing Management 
 MBA 616 Operations Management
 MBA 618 National and International Economics
 MBA 622 Business Policy and Strategy
 MBA 625 Managing Strategic Action
 MBA 691 Business Ethics
 + 3 electivesNote: Students who have had their Certificate conferred will not receive transfer credits to the MBA Program. Course exemptions may be granted, but they must be replaced by alternative courses.Academic RegulationsProgram StructureQualifying CoursesNormally, students who require qualifying courses will have to complete them prior to beginning their program of study.COMM 610 Basic Quantitative Skills for Administration (3 credits)
The objectives of this course are to review the algebra, calculus, probability, and statistics that students may require in courses with quantitative content. Applications to management and economics will be discussed.
Note: Students who have taken COMM 500 or COMM 600 may not receive credit for this course.Courses in the John Molson MBA ProgramAfter successfully completing the qualifying course (if necessary), students in the regular MBA will complete a 57-credit program, and students in the accelerated MBA will complete a 45-credit program comprising the core courses and one of three elective options. Full-time students in the regular MBA will normally complete the program within sixteen months to two years of their first registration and full-time students in the accelerated MBA will normally complete the program within one year.The first part of the program is made up of core courses that are mandatory for all regular MBA students. Students in the accelerated MBA program are required to complete nine of these courses including MBA 625 and MBA 691. The required courses are chosen in consultation with the MBA Program Director, based on the student’s academic background.All students may be permitted to substitute other graduate-level courses, as described under Course Substitution: MBA option for Diploma in Chartered Accountancy students and MBA option for Graduate Certificate in Management Accounting students. The purpose of these core courses is to provide an integrated and rigorous body of functionally oriented skills and knowledge as a foundation for the second part of the program, when students can choose one of three options.MBA 606 Managerial Economics (3 credits)
This course provides the theory and the practical techniques for economic decision-making by business firms and other institutions. Topics covered include demand theory, cost theory and estimation, and pricing theory and practice. These issues are discussed within a firm-theoretic framework and business applications of the theory are emphasized.MBA 607 Financial Accounting for Managerial Decisions (3 credits)
This course provides an overview of the corporate external financial reporting system and of the managerial objectives of corporate financial statements. The roles of management, government and auditors are examined. The specific information needs of the principal users are reviewed. The process for developing and enforcing generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and reporting standards, both legal and professional, is examined. At the outset, this includes a review of the financial accounting model that underlies traditional corporate financial statements. However, emphasis is placed on examining selected major GAAPs and comparing them to actual corporate reporting practices.MBA 608 Managerial Statistics (3 credits)
This course focuses on the applications of statistical techniques that are essential in business data analysis and decision-making. Topics include descriptive statistics, probability and probability distributions, inferences about means, proportions and variances, tests of goodness-of-fit and independence, analysis of variance and linear regression analysis. Statistical software packages are used to perform analyses of data sets and present findings.MBA 609 Organizational Behaviour (3 credits)
Organizational behaviour (OB) is a field of study that investigates the impact that individuals, groups, and structure have on behaviour within an organization, and then applies that knowledge to improve an organization’s effectiveness using social and behavioural principles. Because OB is concerned with employment-related situations, it emphasizes behaviour and the job, absenteeism, employee turnover, productivity, human performance and management. Particular emphasis is placed on identifying and diagnosing the causes and consequences of effective and ineffective behaviour in organizations. Topics covered include perception, work attitudes, motivation, leadership, some aspects of decision-making, and group dynamics including intra- and inter-group processes. The management of change is covered as well, using a mixture of discussion, case analyses and experiential exercises.MBA 610 Marketing Management (3 credits)
This course focuses generally on the strategic role of marketing for any firm. The primary objective is the cultivation of marketing management skills and perspectives. All aspects of the marketing management process are covered. Particular attention is directed to the analysis of marketing opportunities, the researching and selection of target markets, the designing of marketing strategies, the planning of marketing programs, and the organizing, implementing and controlling of marketing effort. A blend of lectures, cases, readings and papers are used to achieve the course objectives.MBA 614 Financial Management (3 credits)
Prerequisite: MBA 607; Co-requisite: MBA 608.
This foundation course provides a framework for making corporate investment, financing and risk management decisions. With the underlying objective of maximizing firm value, this course examines practical decisions confronting financial managers in large and small enterprises by drawing on core concepts and empirical evidence that support best practices. Specific topics explored in depth include security and option valuation, capital budgeting, asset pricing, capital structure and dividend policy decisions. Other topics such as working capital management, takeover and leasing may also be discussed.MBA 615 Management Information Systems (3 credits)
Management information systems (MIS) deals with the coordination and use of three very important organizational resources: information, information technology, and people. This course introduces MIS core concepts and principles and elaborates on the role of the MIS department and the organization. Practical solutions and theoretical models are used to illustrate common MIS issues in organizations, and to apply knowledge acquired through readings and lectures.MBA 616 Operations Management (3 credits)
Co-requisite: MBA 608.
This course concentrates on the quantitative and qualitative techniques used in business to achieve efficient and effective utilization of scarce resources. Management and control of labour, machinery, material, money, planning, information and time resources in manufacturing and the service sectors are studied. Among the topics covered are linear programming, aggregate planning, scheduling, materials management, quality control and project management. The interactions with other functional areas, such as information systems, marketing, accounting and finance, are illustrated through case studies. Recent developments in the area are introduced within the context of manufacturing and service strategies. Modelling and implementation aspects of operations management are emphasized throughout the course. A computer package is used as an aid for the solution phase of the operations management problem-solving process.MBA 618 National and International Economics (3 credits)
This course explores the causes of economic growth and decline in firms and in industries, with special emphasis on international factors. Topics discussed include the constituent parts of national output, inflation and unemployment, and money and interest rates. Coverage also includes foreign exchange rate determination, balance of payments issues and the theory of international trade.MBA 622 Business Policy and Strategy (3 credits)
Prerequisites: MBA 606, MBA 609, MBA 610 and MBA 614.
This course integrates the core functional disciplines of business within a strategic perspective. The course introduces several strategic management concepts including industry analysis and dynamics, the organizational resource audit, strategic typologies, the role of the general manager and the management of strategic transformations. The principle goal is to develop and enhance student ability in problem identification, environmental and organizational analyses, strategic alternative formulation, and action implementation. The pedagogy of the course is based upon comprehensive case studies that deal with strategic issues, in a variety of contemporary business contexts.MBA 625 Managing Strategic Action (3 credits)
Prerequisite: MBA 622.
This course explores the process by which strategic intent and strategy are linked to managerial action. The course centers in on both the development of strategic action in response to issues emanating in the broader external environment as well as issues concerned with the implementation of action programs in contemporary organizations. Specific topics concerned with the external environment include managing social responsibility, ethical dilemmas, economic and social regulations and technological change. Using major organizational theory concepts as a framework, the course also examines how strategic intent can be linked to organizational structure, performance evaluation and management systems. A principal objective of the course is to enhance the student’s ability to make decisions through case studies, student presentations, and lectures.MBA 628 Management Accounting (3 credits)
Prerequisite: MBA 607.
This course focuses on the use of accounting data and the analytical techniques required to provide information for internal decision-making in organizations. The main topics in the course are the nature and behaviour of costs, types of costing systems, short-run and long-run decision-making, budgeting, responsibility accounting, and control systems.MBA 691 Business Ethics (3 credits)
Co-requisite: MBA 622.
This course exposes students to ethical theory and its practical application in the business environment. By utilizing the stakeholder model, the strategic management process is expanded to include ethical elements as means for evaluating business decisions. Through case analysis, group discussions, in-class debates and presentations, students learn to apply theoretical and practical ideas to real life business situations.Part II - ElectivesMBA 631 MBA Research Paper (6 credits)
The objective of the research paper is to provide each student with an opportunity to carry out an in-depth investigation of a selected business problem, working on a one-to-one basis with a faculty member. Research papers may concentrate on a specialized area or they may be interdisciplinary in scope. The investigation will normally extend over two terms.MBA 632 MBA Practicum Project (3 credits)
Although this course is not limited to full-time students, part-time students wishing to be considered must be available during the day throughout the Fall term to attend the necessary course lectures and carry out field work assignments. The objective of the Practicum Project is to provide students with an opportunity to carry out an in-depth investigation of a complex business problem within a corporation or other economic entity. The Project is intended to enhance students’ diagnostic skills, improve their ability to develop innovative and practical responses to complex interdisciplinary problems or entrepreneurial opportunities, sharpen their abilities in working effectively with executives and other group members and hone their communication skills. Students work together in small groups, within the framework of a course that extends over two terms. The course includes lectures and readings on relevant consulting skills, as well as presentations and discussions with executives and with other participants in the course. The number of sections offered in a given year will be limited.Elective CoursesSome of these courses may not be available in a given academic year. Special Topics courses are offered by most departments. Detailed information as to availability and content may be obtained from the MBA Program Office.List of Elective CoursesIn addition to the elective courses listed below, MBA students may also take courses in the MSc in Administration Program, or graduate courses offered outside the John Molson School of Business, subject to approval by the MBA Program Director.MBA 627 Seminar in International Business
MBA 695 Seminar in Special Topics (*)AccountancyACCO 661 Seminar in Financial Accounting
ACCO 671 Seminar in Managerial Accounting
ACCO 691 Seminar in Business Valuations 
ACCO 695 Seminar in Special Topics (*)Decision Sciences and Management Information SystemsDESC 660 Project Management
DESC 661 Seminar in Decision Support Systems in Business
DESC 663 Seminar in Corporate Information Systems Management
DESC 664 Negotiation and e-Negotiation Management and Support
DESC 677 Business Forecasting
DESC 695 Seminar in Special Topics (*)FinanceFINA 651 Seminar in Financial Intermediaries
FINA 663 Seminar in Corporate Finance 
FINA 680 Seminar in Short-Term Financial Management
FINA 682 Seminar in International Financial Management
FINA 683 Seminar in Portfolio Management 
FINA 685 Seminar in Options and Futures 
FINA 687 Seminar in Derivatives and Risk Management
FINA 690 Seminar in Investments
FINA 691 Seminar in Real Estate Finance
FINA 695 Seminar in Special Topics (*)ManagementMANA 661 Seminar in Production Management
MANA 663 Seminar in Labour Relations
MANA 664 Seminar in Corporate Law
MANA 681 Seminar in the Management of International Business
MANA 682 Seminar in Human Resources Management
MANA 683 Seminar in Entrepreneurship and Small Business
MANA 691 Seminar in Strategies in Action: Case Competition 
MANA 692 Seminar in Commercial Contract Law
MANA 695 Seminar in Special Topics (*)MarketingMARK 661 Seminar in Distribution Systems
MARK 664 Seminar in Advertising Management
MARK 671 Seminar in Consumer Behaviour
MARK 672 Seminar in Strategic Marketing
MARK 681 Seminar in International Marketing
MARK 683 Seminar in International Transportation and Distribution
MARK 691 Seminar in Pharmaceutical Marketing
MARK 695 Seminar in Special Topics (*)(*) Subject matter will vary from term to term and students may take more than one of these courses, provided that course content has changed. In such cases, the student’s record will be automatically modified to 696, 697, etc. to reflect this change in content.MBA Co-operative OptionThe MBA Co-operative Option is non-credit and is offered to all students who are enrolled in the John Molson MBA Program. Students accepted into the Co-op must be registered as full-time, have completed 24 credits, and maintain a cumulative GPA of 3.30 or better.Students may do a minimum of one work term (four months) to a maximum of three work terms (twelve months). Students must return to full-time study for their last term.Top© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
MBAMaster of/Magisteriate in Business AdministrationMBA WebsiteConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424