http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/encs/mechanical-industrial/students/undergraduate/mechanical-engineering-options.htmlStudents in the Mechanical Engineering program must complete at least 19.75 elective credits from within one of 3 Options:In addition to the courses selected from the Option, students will work within their selected area for the MECH 490 (Capstone) project as well.For more information on each option,including course requirements, please see section 71.40.1 of the current Undergraduate Calendar.In order to apply for your option, you must have less than 40 credits remaining in the program after the current (winter) term. Applications are only accepted from March 1st to March 31st.Every attempt will be made to accommodate students in the Option of their choice. However, due to limited enrollment of certain key Option ourses, the Department may have to limit the number of students admitted in certain options. In such cases, a "first-come, first-served" basis is observed so hand in your application as soon as possible.With permission of the Department, students may take one technical elective course from another option. No more than one will be approved or count towards your degree. You must fill in an Undergraduate Student Request Form, available at Student Academic Services.Please note: Since AERO 464 and MECH 412 are mandatory courses within their options, registration for these courses will be restricted to students within those options initially. Please fill in a student request if you would like to take one of these courses outside of your option.Yes you may, but approval will depend on available space. In order to change your option, please fill out the appropriate section of the Option Selection Form and return it to the department. Also, please remember that if you change your Option you must comply with the requirements of the new Option and some courses you previously took may not be eligible for transfer. Feel free to consult with your Undergraduate Program Assistant before making a decision.New applications are only accepted beginning March 1st of the current year.Please submit your form to the Undergraduate Program Assistant, EV4.144 or fax to 514-848-3175.
© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityMechanical Option SelectionDepartment of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE)
            
                Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE)
            Application FormConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424What are the available options?When to apply for Option Selection?Can I take a course from a different option?Can I change my option?