http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/students/success/mentoring.htmlLearn about your new campus, meet new people and find out what it takes to be a successful student. Get informed. Get connected. Get it right. Drop by the Student Success Mentoring Office, send us an email or visit us on Facebook and speak to a mentor today.Hometown: Montreal, QC3 words that describe me: Curious, creative, and transparent.In my spare time I: Read up on anything I’m curious about; walk around the city and learn its history; and watch movies and series. In a nutshell, I like to read, write and watch.My secret spot to study on campus: 10th floor EV, where I can post up on a comfy chair and overlook the west side of downtown.Favourite, affordable off-campus food option: Al-Taïb zaatar for under four bucks! A great quick meal between classes.In my first year I wish I knew: About all the services the Student Success Centre offers. Seriously. I had no idea.The thing I like most about Concordia is: It’s only after you experience an environment that stifles your growth that you realize how great the atmosphere at Concordia really is. You have people here who genuinely want to see you become the best version of yourself, and they’ll put in the time and effort to help you get there.My success tip for new students: Make sure you know when your downtime is. Focusing on a relaxing reward makes the hard work much easier to bear. Also, get to know your professors and the people who work in your department; you’ll not only feel the community, but you’ll also have experts in your field to bounce ideas off of.Languages I speak: English and French.j_toufe@live.concordia.ca
Hometown: Montana, Bulgaria3 words that describe me: Contemplative, organized, and perseverant.In my spare time I: Love hiking, camping, biking, and any other activity that takes me outside in the summer. I also love reading philosophy books and watching movies.My secret spot to study on campus:  In the lab I currently volunteer at.Favourite, affordable off-campus food option: Five Guys, because sometimes you just need a good burger.In my first year I wish I knew: How rewarding it is to get involved in the Concordia community.The thing I like most about Concordia is: That classes are the bare bones of the Concordia experience. The University offers a huge amount of opportunities that allow you to develop practical skills and knowledge that directly transfer to the outside world. Furthermore, the prospects offered by Concordia are extremely diverse and no matter the student’s interests, there is always a possibility to get involved.My success tip for new students: Sit in the front row and establish contact with the other front-sitters; those are usually people who are aware of what is happening in the class and can help you out if you have any questions or you miss a class. Use the academic resources available at your disposal. Try to do your work as early as possible, and try your best not to fall behind; take it as a marathon, not a sprint. And beyond all else, venerate the Techno-Trinity: the Calendar, Notes, and Reminders apps.Languages I speak: In order of fluency: English, French, Bulgarian (native).pe_petro@live.concordia.caHometown: Montreal, Quebec.3 words that describe me: Motivated, ambitious and nice.In my spare time I: Am mainly at the gym doing some weight training or walking around Montreal to discover new cafes and parks. I also do lots of photography. If I’m not doing any of those activities, I’m probably at home either cooking or reading books.My secret spot to study on campus: 4th floor in the CJ building at Loyola campus and the 7th floor of Hall building at the SGW campus.Favourite, affordable off-campus food option: Chateau Kabab, 2140 Rue Guy. If you’re a kabab fan like me, it’s really worth trying!In my first year I wish I knew: About all the services Concordia offers, such as the health services, career counselling, and the Student Success Centre. I also wish I knew about the various ways a student can easily get involved in the Concordia community.The thing I like most about Concordia is: Concordia has a very welcoming atmosphere to all new local and international students, which helps increase its diversity and adds to its uniqueness. I also like its two different campus locations. You have the option to study at either the Loyola campus or the SGW campus based on whether you prefer a busy or quiet environment.  My success tip for new students: Get involved, ask questions and go to your professors’ office hours. Get to know your professors and let them get to know you. Do not hesitate or feel shy to ask them any questions concerning the course you are taking because in the end your success is what counts.Languages I speak: English, French and Arabic (fluently); Spanish (beginner proficiency).s_chaac@live.concordia.caHometown: Airdrie, Alberta3 words that describe myself: Curious, determined, reflective.In my spare time I: Run, play the guitar, and spend time with friends.My secret spot to study on campus: Anywhere in the Hall building near a window. The higher the floor the better.Favourite, affordable off-campus food option: Burritoville! 2055 Bishop St.I wish I knew in my first year: That there is a meditation room in the Multi-faith Chaplaincy.The thing I like the most about Concordia: The incredible amount of resources that are available to students.My success tip for new students: Ask for help when you need it. If you don’t know who to ask, ask us!Languages I speak: English, Spanish, French. m_mead@live.concordia.ca
Hometown: I like to pretend like that I’m a vagabond as I have no particular hometown, but I have lived the longest in Los Angeles.3 words that describe me: Compassionate, resilient, convivial.In my spare time I: I like to dabble in a bit of everything. Drawing and painting, playing guitar and tennis, learning languages, reading, basking in nature, watching international films with my bestie or Disney films with my family, cycling, and much more.My secret spot to study on campus: Under the stairs at the SP Building, there is an extremely well-lit, often forgotten study area with all the important study amenities nearby. The Genomics Building also has a few magical locations.Favourite, affordable off-campus food option: Café Bano near the Loyola campus.In my first year I wish I knew: that there is a difference between studying a lot and studying smart; doing busy-work versus concentrating your efforts; reading versus comprehending; going to class versus being fully present in class.The thing I like most about Concordia is: how down-to-earth and approachable all the professors and students are. It is a friendly environment where you can let your true colours shine and be accepted no matter what.My success tip for new students: One thing you can do to easily to improve your chances of succeeding at university is to carefully and strategically plan your schedule for the upcoming year. Try to distribute the number of classes you have as equally and consistently as possible throughout the week.  Once you’ve started the semester, mark down all of your deadlines on a calendar to identify any high-pressure weeks with multiple deadlines. For those weeks, you may want to start planning far in advance.Languages I speak: English and Bengali (native proficiency), Hindi and Spanish (working proficiency), French (beginner proficiency). z_arshy@live.concordia.caHometown: Toronto, Ontario and Tehran, Iran.3 words that describe me: Motivated, determined, optimistic.In my spare time I: walk around searching for new cool coffee spots in the city, cook, and play the piano.My secret spot to study on campus: The Greenhouse on the 13th floor of the Hall Building. If you are looking for a peaceful space where you can study and drink tea while being surrounded by various plants, you should definitely try the Greenhouse.Favourite, affordable off-campus food option: Boustan, Kazu, Qing Hua Dumpling, and Dunn’s.In my first year I wish I knew: how important it is to get involved in extra-curricular activities on campus. It not only helps you meet new people and get to know what’s going on around campus, if you manage your time properly, it will help you do better academically.The thing I like most about Concordia is: its inclusive community. It’s easy to meet new people and get to know your peers and professors.My success tip for new students: Invest some time in figuring out a study/time management plan that works for you. You might need to do a few rounds of trial and error at the beginning of your first semester, but once you figure out a system that works you will save a lot of time and energy.Languages I speak: English and Farsi Hometown: Dhaka, Bangladesh3 words that describe me: Energetic, open-minded and active.In my spare time I:  Go to the gym and workout. During summer, I like to go jogging outside, usually around the Old Port or Mount Royal. I like outdoor activities and walking around the city with my friends a lot. I’ve also got an interest in photography; sometimes I think that I should get a better camera! If I’m at home, I watch movies or just code! I love coding and often watch videos and tutorials to learn more about coding whenever I have some spare time.My secret spot to study on campus:  Anywhere on the higher floors of the EV building where you can enjoy the beautiful view of Montreal.Favourite, affordable off-campus food option:  Usually I don’t like eating out that much. I like to prepare my own food, but if I’m on the run I’ll go to Al-Taib and grab something from the salad bar, or a slice of pizza.In my first year I wish I knew: More about Concordia facilities, communities and clubs.The thing I like most about Concordia is: The community and diversity. There are a lot of student clubs and organizations across Concordia that enable students to experience a broad spectrum of activities, bothacademic and non-academic. Getting involved is the best way to learn and sharpen your skills.My success tip for new students: Get involved and keep moving. Do not hesitate to seek help! Get to know your professors and make yourself known to them. Try not to assume if you’re not sure about any information; instead, ask for help. Take time to make yourself familiar to how Concordia works. As a student it is very important not to get stressed and overwhelmed, find time for yourself and relax. Remember, relaxing or taking a break is not a waste of time.Languages I speak:  Bangla (Native), English and Hindi.asi_hoss@live.concordia.caHometown: Mysore, Karnataka, India3 words that describe myself: Enthusiastic, determined, and friendly.In my spare time I: I like to do sketches, listen to music and make friends. I love to involve myself in all possible activities and try to communicate with people to a build network and gain useful information.My secret spot to study on campus: The Grey Nuns group study room and 4th Floor in Library Building silent study zone on the SGW campus.Favorite, affordable off campus food option: Bombay Mahal Thali on Rue St. Catherine.In my first year I wish I knew: About finding on-campus jobs and about various services offered to students.The thing I like most about Concordia is: I like Concordia’s diverse culture. It also offers various services and facilities to students.My success tip for new students: Plan your studies and the courses to which you would like to register in advance. Feel free to discuss any questions or issues related to your course with your professor. Utilize the numerous services offered to you and work hard to succeed in your academics.Languages I speak: English, Hindi and Kannada (Native).Other Association: Computer Science and Software Engineering (CSE) Department Representative at Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Association (ECSGA)Hometown: Baroda, Gujarat, India3 words that describe myself: Optimistic, caring and innovative.In my spare time I: Discover Montreal, watch Soccer, try to make friends with people from various communities and educate myself with the things that can make me successful in the long run.My secret spot to study on campus: Capstone Rooms (Hall building) for group study and blue zone in LB Building for silent study.Favourite affordable off-campus food option: Thali (Cuisine Indienne) on St. Marc and Boustan on Crescent Street.In my first year I wish I knew: More about the facilities provided by Concordia, more about different associations in Concordia, more about the events happening in Montreal  and also how to plan and study effectively for exams.The thing I like most about Concordia is: Diversity and inclusion, its location, facilities provided by Concordia and the opportunities provided for students to excel and be successful.My success tip for new students: Educate yourself with all the facilities provided by Concordia as soon as possible. Never hesitate or be shy to ask questions to anyone and never be satisfied till you get the best answer you have been looking for. Think differently and effectively because you will be facing a lot of competition. Work hard, there is no shortcut to success.Languages I speak: English, Hindi, Gujarati and  Malayalam.r_kochu@live.concordia.ca
Hometown: Roca Sales, RS, Brazil3 words that describe me: Detail-oriented, persistent and honest.In my spare time I: like to spend time with friends, listen to music, and watch soccer.My secret spot to study on campus: Reading rooms at LB5; they are bright and quiet.Favourite, affordable off-campus food option: Restaurant Picks on Saint Marc Street. They have delicious burgers.In my first year I wish I knew: About the Student Success Centre.The things I like most about Concordia are: Its diverse culture and the location.My success tip for new students: Get to know Concordia and all the services that are available for you, and don’t forget to study hard! Meeting your professors during their office hours to clarify or ask questions can also be very useful.Languages I speak: English, Portuguese (native) and Spanish (beginner).f_caio@live.concordia.caHometown: Montreal, QC3 words that describe me: Hard-working, enthusiastic, curious.In my spare time I: am usually helping out as a member of the Concordia Dragon Boat Club (CDBC) and the Concordia University Building Engineering Society (CUBES). Outside of school, I enjoy exploring the city on my bike, going to the gym, and reading. I am very passionate about the city of Montreal so I am always trying to learn more about it through exploration and reading. I also like to use any spare time I have to work out the right side of my brain by trying my hand at drawing and photography.My secret spot to study on campus: The library! Not much of a secret but I find nothing beats the quiet and cool atmosphere of the 3rd and 5th floor study rooms. I always try to grab a seat close to the window so I can look outside and clear my head every once in a while. If I don't feel like leaving the Hall building though, an empty classroom or computer lab will always do the trick.Favorite, affordable off campus food option: Boustan all the way! There is also a very affordable little falafel place on Ste-Catherine called Nilufar. Of course, having the MyPiece app on your phone is a huge bonus as they often have deals for places like Boustan, Subway, and Dagwoods.In my first year I wish I knew: How approachable the staff at Concordia are. When you first start at Concordia, it can be intimidating to approach professors of staff members but there's absolutely no reason to feel that way! Everyone who works at the university does so because they want to help students like you. Whether it be academically, socially, psychologically, or physically, there is a panoply of people out there to help you and guide you; all you need to do is ask!The thing I like most about Concordia is: The friendly environment. Everyone I have met at the university, whether it be students or staff, have all been unequivocally friendly. The classroom environment is non-competitive, which means that though everyone wants to do their best, nobody is actively trying to be better than everyone else. As such, your best friends when it comes to academic success are the people who sit around you every day. University is not easy, but when students aware that everyone in their class is going through the same thing, the experience becomes infinitely more interactive, beneficial, and fun!My success tip for new students: Meet people! Concordia is brimming with interesting, unique, and ambitious individuals. If there is something that interests you, it's guaranteed that there's somebody else at Concordia with the same interest. Get out there, talk to people, share your passions, and maybe even discover new ones.Languages I speak:  English and FrenchHometown: Montréal3 words that describe me: Patient, honest and curious.In my spare time I: Listen to podcasts.My secret spot to study on campus: 11th floor of the EV building, on the visual arts side with red couches and large windows.Favourite, affordable off-campus food option: Thali, I recommend the chana bhatura for $6.50.In my first year I wish I knew: How to plan out my academics and courses for the upcoming yearsThe thing I like most about Concordia is: How approachable all my professors have been, and the supportive student community.My success tip for new students: Ask for help, there are many people and resources on campus that are aimed to help you throughout your studies.m_stabi@live.concordia.ca
Hometown: Toronto, Ontario3 words that describe me: Funny, creative, and empathetic.In my spare time I: Enjoy walking around Montréal and observing the beautiful architecture. I also like reading, singing, dancing (Ballet), and cooking.My secret spot to study on campus: The 13th floor of the downtown Hall building in the Concordia greenhouse. It’s a beautiful space filled with plants and sunlight, I like studying there in the wintertime when it’s cold outside.Favorite, affordable off campus food option: Nilafur (1923 St. Catherine W) has delicious falafels for under $2.00 and features a mostly vegan menu.In my first year I wish I knew: About all the incredible resources that Concordia has to offer.The thing I like most about Concordia is: The fact that each student receives 10 free psychological counselling sessions throughout their entire degree. As someone training to be a therapist I think it’s important to have this support system in place. But I also know how wonderful it is to be able to simply talk to someone about any problems you may be experiencing.My success tip for new students: Academic work is really important, but so is practicing self-care. Self-care just means taking care of your emotional, physical and mental needs. So getting exercise, eating well, and actually sleeping are essential ingredients for keeping yourself happy and healthy.Languages I speak: English and French (beginner proficiency). Hometown: Montreal, QC3 words that describe me: Smiley, driven, and a huge Chinese food foodie.In my spare time I: Am the Co-President of the John Molson Women in Leadership (JMWL) committee at JMSB, which raises awareness of gender inequality throughout the different levels of academia, with conferences and speaker panels to engage students on the sustainable and systematic change needed to ultimately achieve equality in the workplace. When I am not studying, helping students as a Student Mentor, or working with my JMWL team, you can usually find me sleeping (favorite hobby).My secret spot to study on campus:  Any of the top levels in the JMSB building – you can find secluded couches near the windows that give you an amazing view of the city.Favorite, affordable off campus food option: Arouch, a pizza wrap fast food restaurant attached to JMSB on Maisonneuve! Quick, cheap, and semi-healthy.In my first year I wish I knew: All that Concordia has to offer – such as competing academically around Canada/Internationally through the John Molson Case Competition program as well as refining your interview skills through Career Management Services’ workshops. Get informed! You won’t regret it.The thing I like most about Concordia is: The support! Everyone at Concordia wants you to succeed.My success tip for new students: Get involved in school associations! Not only will you expand your network of friends and business professionals, but you will also learn a ton that cannot be taught in a classroom. Volunteering can help you reduce stress, combat depression, keep you mentally stimulated, and provide a sense of purpose. Languages I speak: English and French.Hometown: Xianyang, China3 words that describe me: Enthusiastic, detail-oriented, and perseverant.In my spare time I: I love cooking Chinese dishes, watching movies with my friends, and learning French. I’m also interested in doing sports, like hiking, badminton and skating.My secret spot to study on campus: Trading room in the MB building 12th floor.Favourite, affordable off-campus food option: Ganadara, a Korean restaurant. There’s always a line, but it’s worth the wait.In my first year I wish I knew: About the LIVE Volunteer Resource Centre.The thing I like most about Concordia is: Concordia has a diverse culture. It is a great opportunity to learn how to collaborate with students who have different backgrounds. I not only study in the classroom, but I also learn a lot all around campus when I work in study groups, participate in student associations, or volunteer for an event.My success tip for new students: Talk to people. Don’t be silent when you confront any problems. Talk to your classmates, since they may already have the solutions. Talk to your professors, since they are always willing to help you with your work. Talk to the staff at Concordia, since there are plenty of resources that you can use.Languages I speak:  Mandarin, English, and French (Beginner).q_nie@live.concordia.caHometown: Beijing, ChinaIn my spare time:  I volunteer and go to the gym.My secret spot to study on campus: Blue zone in the library.Favourite, affordable off-campus food option:In my first year, I wish I’d known: about the Career Resource Centre.The thing I like the most about Concordia is its diverse culture.My success tip for new students: Attend every orientation and join a student association.Languages I speak: English and Mandarin. li_go@live.concordia.ca
Hometown: Heihe, Hei longjiang Province, China3 words that describe myself: Enthusiasm, challenge, patience.In my spare time I: Do exercises, go to karaoke with friends, do tutoring, watch movies and go traveling.My secret spot to study on campus: MB building 3rd floor.Favourite, affordable off-campus food option: - Tianxia Restaurant Coreen, and La Banquise for poutine.In my first year, I wish I’d known: How to practice my English (Student Success Centre), and get help with adapting to a new environment in a different country with different cultures.The thing I like the most about Concordia is: The abundance of activities, facilities and services for students, we may almost find everything that we need in our campus.My success tip for new students: Don’t be shy when you get into a new environment, whatever it is. You may feel embarrassed at the beginning, but if you give up the chance because of it, you will never be successful. Try to build a good relationship with your professors, they may give you help not only in the courses, but also in the future such as job/ career wise. It’s not a bad thing to let professor get familiar with you.Languages I speak: Chinese and English. l_yuanch@live.concordia.ca
Connect with a successful, upper-year, university student in your faculty who can help you adjust to university by openly sharing their own challenges, achievements, and tips.Are well-connected to the Concordia community. You will be regularly informed about networking events, job opportunities and workshops related to your field of study.Have a support system during your first year of university studies. If you have questions about a class, are looking for ways to finance your studies or are unsure about your future, simply contact your mentor and they will direct you towards the appropriate service.Student Success Centre Mentor Office
 SGW: (514) 848-2424, ext. 7369
LOY: (514) 848-2424, ext. 5901success@concordia.caSir George Williams Campus
 H-481 (see map)Loyola Campus
AD-101 (see map)
*closed from June 20 to July 31Monday - Thursday: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m.
Friday: Closed© Concordia UniversityLearning support
New students
Career and planning services
 Mentors
 Funding & awards
 Contact us
Appointments
How to register for workshops
About the Student Success CentreConcordia UniversityMeet the Student Success Mentor TeamStudent hub
            
                Student hub
            Join the conversationWhen you have a mentor, you:  Student Success Mentor OfficeLocationsJesse Toufexis (MA, History and Philosophy of Religion)Petio Petrov (BA, Specialization in Psychology)Seeba Chaachouh (BA, Double Major in Journalism & Political Science)Maxwell Meade (BA, Spécialisation en Traduction)Zarin Arshy (BSc, Major in Psychology, Specialization in Behavioural Neuroscience)Jasmine Eftekhari (MSc, Geography, Urban and Environmental Studies)  y_yasama@live.concordia.ca
Asif Bin Hossain (MEng, Aerospace)Thungashree Maragowdanahalli Somegowda (MEng, Software Engineering)Renny Kochubaby (MEng, Electrical & Computer Engineering)Fernanda Caio (MASc, Mechanical Engineering)Samuel Shulman (BEng, Building Engineering with Co-op)s_shulma@live.concordia.caMariana Stabilé (BFA, Major in Painting and Drawing)Katherine  Downey (MFA Drama Therapy, Creative Arts Therapies) Jazna Rossi (BComm, Finance & International Business)jazna.rossi@mail.concordia.caQiao Nie (MSc, Finance)Lingzi Gong (BComm, Major in Accountancy)Kevin (Yuanchen) Liu (BComm, Double Major in Marketing and Accountancy)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424