http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/calendar/current/jmsb/mscm.htmlAdmission RequirementsThe program is open to both full-time and part-time students. The following bachelor’s degrees with high academic standing are eligible for admission:  bachelor’s degree in Commerce (or equivalent) with a major in any business discipline; bachelor’s degree in any of the engineering disciplines; bachelor’s degree in Economics / Mathematics / Applied Sciences.To be eligible for admission, applicants must have maintained at least a B average in the final two years of their undergraduate studies and have obtained a Grade Point Average (GPA) of at least 3.00 on a 4.30 scale, or the equivalent, from an accredited university.Applicants must submit proof of satisfactory performance on the Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT) or the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) completed within the previous five years, two letters of recommendation with the Academic Assessment forms and a short statement of purpose. (Please note that the GMAT is preferred to the GRE).Proficiency in English or French. Applicants whose first language is not English or French and who are not Canadian citizens or landed immigrants must obtain a satisfactory score in the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) before being considered for admission. This requirement is waived for foreign students completing their undergraduate degrees at a university where English or French is the language of instruction.Concordia Comprehensive ESL Placement Test (ConCEPT). Applicants who have been admitted by a program and whose test results fall within the range requiring a language placement test are required to write the Concordia Comprehensive ESL Placement Test (ConCEPT).Requirements for the DegreeAcademic RegulationsElective SeminarsTaking an elective seminar is subject to the academic advisor’s approval. Each year a selection of specialized seminars are offered on a rotating basis from those listed below.MSCA 625 Seminar in Options and Futures
 MSCA 632 Seminar in Special Topics in Finance
 MSCA 645 Seminar in Organization Theory
 MSCA 647 Seminar in Strategic Management
 MSCA 652 Seminar in Special Topics in Management
 MSCA 668 Seminar in Innovation and Marketing
 MSCA 672 Seminar in Special Topics in MarketingAt most one elective seminar at the graduate level can be taken outside of JMSB. Qualifying ProgramUp to three qualifying program courses are taken by those students who do not have a Supply Chain Management or Industrial Engineering degree. These courses are specified at the time of admission by the Admissions Committee, based on the academic background of the student. The qualifying program courses need to be successfully completed prior to starting the regular master program.Supply Chain Management Seminar DescriptionsMSCM 681 Advanced Modelling and Optimization
 This seminar emphasizes the theoretical and practical aspects of advanced optimization modelling techniques in supply chain planning. Among the topics covered are network optimization, non-linear programming, stochastic programming, Markov processes and application of duality in developing decomposition-based solution approaches for large linear and integer models. Use of commercial modelling platform and optimization software are an integral part of this seminar.MSCM 682 Sourcing and Global Logistics
 This seminar covers the practices, techniques and regulations associated with sourcing and movement of materials in the global supply chains. Among the topics covered on sourcing are impact of globalization on sourcing, supplier evaluation and selection, supplier performance management, purchasing, electronic procurement, negotiations, contract law, supplier relationship management. Issues in global logistics are discussed in the second half of the seminar. Among the topics covered are distribution channels, warehousing, transportation management, reverse logistics, green logistics and sustainability, and cross-border issues in logistics. The coverage is supplemented by case studies and research articles.MSCM 683 Supply Chain Design and Coordination
 Prerequisite: MSCM 681 or equivalent.
This seminar focuses on managerial and modelling issues in supply chain design and coordination along the supply chain. Models in facility location, distribution networks and global supply chain networks are studied. The strategic aspects of supply chain design are discussed in terms of competitive drivers. The second part of the seminar deals with coordination issues. Among the concepts and models covered in this respect are supply chain contracts, collaborative planning, forecasting and replenishment, bullwhip effect, postponement, and vendor managed inventory. Articles, case studies, optimization software and simulation game are used as part of seminar delivery.MSCM 684 Demand Management
 The seminar presents advanced forecasting tools that assist market analysis, revenue management tools that optimize operational performance and approaches in building flexibilities to enhance manufacturing and organizational capabilities. Among the topics covered are advanced forecasting models, judgmental forecasting and adjustment, customer relationship management, consumer choice models, dynamic pricing, capacity control, network revenue management, manufacturing and organizational flexibilities. The seminar content is delivered via a combination of lectures, case analyses and research articles.MSCM 685 Supply Chain Risk Management
 Prerequisite: MSCM 681 or equivalent.
Strategies for managing the various risks along the supply chain are studied. Quantitative and qualitative approaches used in analyzing such risks and scenarios are covered. The seminar discusses risk identification and management, trade-offs in risk management, strategies for robustness, scenario planning, financial risks and disruption planning. The approaches used for modelling and analyzing the supply chain risks are presented through lectures, case analyses and research articles.MSCM 689 Applied Research Project
 Prerequisite: at least nine credits of MSCM seminars.
Supervised (co-supervised) by a faculty member(s), the applied research project is carried out individually or by a group of two students, depending on the overall requirements and the extent of the project to be conducted. The project involves working on a real-life supply chain management problem provided by a company. Once the problem is defined, the students prepare an overall project management plan to tackle the problem within a given time limit. The various stages of the project involve, among others: literature review, defining data and information requirements for problem analysis, gathering data, designing the appropriate model, conducting experimental design runs and sensitivity analyses, and presenting the solution(s) with an implementation plan. The project outcome is expected to have both academic and business merit. For projects done in groups of two students, there is a significant individual evaluation component in assessing the work done by each student.Top© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
Supply Chain and Business Technology ManagementMaster of/Magisteriate in Supply Chain ManagementSupply Chain and Business Technology Management WebsiteConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424