http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/research/centres/multidisciplinary-behavioural-business.htmlWelcome to the Centre for Multidisciplinary Behavioural Business Research (CMBBR). The mission of the CMBBR is to advance the knowledge of behavioural issues in businesses and organizations. Funded by Concordia University and member researcher funds, the CMBBR is hosted at the John Molson School of Business (JMSB) in Montreal. The team consists of a network of researchers, collaborators, and researchers in training, each committed to the development of behavioural research that is rooted in multiple disciplines of business. CMBBR’s physical facilities include laboratories designed to facilitate cutting edge behavioural research. The primary principle of CMBBR is the advancement of theoretical and practical behavioural business knowledge through innovative and rigorous scientific research and the promotion of multidisciplinary research.The CMBBR is committed to the development of knowledge of behavioural issues in businesses and organizations. With this knowledge the goal is to develop processes that result in innovative, sustainable, and responsible solutions that will benefit organizations, their stakeholders, managers, employees, and consumers. 

More specifically, the CMBBR focuses on fundamental behavioural research with substantive implications for three major entities: (a) consumers, (b) organizations, and (c) the workforce. The CMBBR is committed to the development of original empirical research that benefits these entities and pertains to behavioural decisions at the level of individuals, dyads, groups, and other social collectives. As such, the outcomes of the research conducted at the CMBBR can benefit marketers, human resource managers, IT designers and managers, in addition to the benefits and implications for the general public.

In addition to the substantive contributions, research supported by the CMBBR aims to have theoretical and methodological contributions primarily in consumer behaviour, organizational behaviour, information systems, and management. For theoretical foundations, the CMBBR research can adopt a body of research in organizational psychology, social psychology, cognitive psychology, or economics.1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. West,
MB 13.260, Montreal, QC H3G 1M8Tel: 514-848-2424, ext. 2903
Email: cmbbr@jmsb.concordia.ca © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityCentre for Multidisciplinary Behavioural Business ResearchJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessObjectives
                
            
                
					
                    Research FocusContact usConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424