http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/research/centres/national-bank-initiative.htmlThe National Bank Initiative in Entrepreneurship and Family Business is funded by a generous endowment from the National Bank. 
Entrepreneurship is a key engine of economic growth in Quebec and Canada. Many businesses, over 70% according to estimates, are family-owned and managed. The purpose of the National Bank Initiative in Entrepreneurship and Family Business is to focus on research projects dedicated to knowledge creation in the field of entrepreneurship and family business, and to provide support at the graduate and undergraduate levels to students with an interest in entrepreneurship and family business.The National Bank Initiative in Entrepreneurship and Family Business supports the following activities:Funding is provided for projects dedicated to knowledge creation in the field of entrepreneurship and family business.Three projects by JMSB Faculty from the Management and Finance departments received funding in 2015. One project is investigating the role of social capital in start-ups and its effect on the firms’ ability to raise external financial capital. Another project is studying the presence and impact of gender diversity in top management teams in family businesses. A third project is focusing on how securities analysts evaluate family firms in an emerging market and whether they have biases toward family ownership and control.Click on “Call for proposals” in the menu for the 2016 call.Recognized academics, researchers, and practitioners in the field of entrepreneurship and family business are invited to speak to an inter-disciplinary mix of people from the JMSB community, other departments at the University, and other universities and research institutes in the region.Greg Adelstein, President of iGotcha Media, is the National Bank Entrepreneur-in-Residence (EIR). Since 2015 he has been a guest speaker in undergraduate Entrepreneurship classes, a panelist for business plan presentations in the EMBA, a speaker in the John Molson Graduate Student Association (JMGSA) Speaker Series and GradProSkills workshops , and a judge in the Dobson $EED Competition.Greg Adelstein has over 15 years’ experience working in high-tech start-ups. Greg is President of iGotcha Media, a Montreal-based digital signage agency, which he started in 2005. Greg holds a B.A. in International Relations from Clark University, a Graduate Diploma in Sports Administration from Concordia University, and a J.D. from Brooklyn Law School.If you are a student at Concordia University and would like to contact Greg Adelstein for advice or mentoring regarding a business idea or start-up, please send an email to alexandra.dawson@concordia.ca. Indicate your name, program, and a brief description of your question or reason for contacting the EIR.The National Bank’s contribution supports Concordia undergraduate and graduate students.At the undergraduate level, bursaries are awarded to BComm students who are taking a minor in entrepreneurship.At the graduate level, MSc scholarships and PhD fellowships are awarded to students with an interest in entrepreneurship and family business. Two JMSB students (one at MSc and one at PhD level) received funding in 2015. Their projects focused on how venture capital backing affects entrepreneurs’ exit methods and on how the founder’s entrepreneurial spirit is transferred to future generations in family businesses.Download the 2016 call for MSc scholarships and PhD fellowships.Check out the John Molson Executive Centre’s Family Wealth Program, a 3-day seminar on “Cultivating Your Family Legacy”.Get involved with Enactus Concordia (an international non-profit organization) in projects such as:Access information and data on Industry, Company, Market and Consumer, Demographic trends, Rules, Regulations & Licences, Advertising, Funding, and Export/Import, as well as Guides to Starting a Business through the Concordia Library website (available to Members of the University)Are you an Entrepreneur looking for help in transforming your “Idea into Impact”? Would you like to become a mentor to the new innovation leaders? District 3, a Concordia University partner, is an accelerator of innovation that nurtures the entrepreneurial spirit through specialized Events, Programs, and Workshops.  © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityNational Bank Initiative in Entrepreneurship and Family BusinessJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            ActivitiesNews
Useful linksNovember 10: Panel discussion on innovation in family business and entrepreneurship John Molson Executive Centre’s Family Wealth ProgramEnactus ConcordiaEntrepreneurship & business research through Concordia LibraryDistrict 3Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Targeted researchNational Bank Speaker SeriesNational Bank Entrepreneur-in-ResidenceNational Bank Student Awards and Bursaries