Studies that stand out
                    
                        From an experimental drawing lab to gay porn research, find out more about award-winning graduate projects.
                    
                        Next-generation engineering
                    
                        Two Curriculum Innovation Fund projects are rethinking design and exploring entertainment technology.
                    
                        Invasive animals
                    
                        A Concordia graduate student is investigating how foreign mammals affect Newfoundland’s food chain.
                    
                        Mom and pop power 
                    
                        Can their management lessons be successfully applied to other enterprises?
                    
                        What is the role of academic research?
                    
                        Grad students participate in a Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council roundtable about Canada's future.
                    
                        Three-minute bursts of groundbreaking research
                    
                        Concordia played host to the Eastern Regional 3MT Thesis Competition.
                    
                        From bicycle couriers to guerilla gardening: intermedia production reaches out
                    
                        A revamped Communications course embraces cross-disciplinary digital storytelling.
                    
                        Katarina Mihailović nabs award for her research on a lost art film
                    
                        The Concordia PhD student is heavily invested in the work of filmmaker Dušan Makavejev.
                    
                        The transformative power of giant screens
                    
                        30 Concordia graduate students were chosen to present at the 2015 Society for Cinema and Media Studies Conference.
                    
                        No business degree? No problem
                    
                        JMSB offers a diploma program for graduates, professionals and recent immigrants.
                    
                        A startup approach to improving MRIs
                    
                        A Concordia-based interdisciplinary team is competing for the chance to bring a new invention to market.
                    
                        Grad students go mobile
                    
                        Travel-funding recipients showcase their innovative projects.
                    
                        Postdoctoral prowess on display at Concordia
                    
                        A second-annual research day unites Montreal fellows.
                    
                        Starting your own business is easier than you think
                    
                        Entrepreneurial Strategies workshops aim to prepare future grads for success beyond the academy.
                    
                        What engineers can learn from the lotus leaf
                    
                        VIDEO: A profile of PhD student Navid Sharifi.
                    
                        National prize for doctoral dissertation goes to Concordia grad
                    
                        Eric Weissman recognized for outstanding research on self-governed homeless communities.
                    
                        The next big thing in bone replacements
                    
                        VIDEO: A profile of PhD student Ehsan Rezabeigi.
                    
                        
                        Breakdance + gaming
                        
                    
                        INDI scholar JoDee Allen moves towards a breakthrough in player movement.
                    
                        
                        The 'gold standard' of MBA case competitions
                        
                    
                        Sustainability and global connectivity take centre stage at the John Molson event.
                    
                        
                        Arts-based approaches to difficult life stories
                        
                    
                        VIDEO: A profile of PhD student Lisa Ndejuru.
                    
                        
                        Can yeast help solve a crucial biological puzzle?
                        
                    
                        A Concordia student is applying innovative science to a key cellular process.
                    
                        
                        Concordia research harnesses the power of opium poppies
                        
                    
                        An innovative approach to painkiller production could lessen Canada’s dependence on foreign supplies.
                    
                        
                        Transforming toxic waste into green energy 
                        
                    
                        Emerging graduate research at Concordia seeks to turn pulp mills into dynamic biorefineries.
                    
                        
                        Tips from a PhD grad who’s done it all
                        
                    
                        Sherin Al-Safadi has done important research, won awards and given back to the community.
                    
                        
                            Where journeys in teaching begin
                        
                    
                        One year in, the Graduate Certificate in University Teaching is paying dividends for PhD students.
                    
                        
                        Concordia displays its INDI spirit
                        
                    
                        Master’s and PhD students from the Individualized Program show off their unique projects at research day.
                    
                                Concordia University | Privacy
                            1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W., Montreal, Quebec, Canada, H3G 1M8, Tel: 514-848-2424Not interested in receiving this newsletter? Unsubscribe