http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/services/career/students/offered-services.htmlSchedule an appointment to see your Career Advisor to help you with your career management process. Advising appointments can be booked once you are fully registered and have attended both the "Resume" and "Job Search Strategies" Workshops.

Our Advisors can help you with any career-related topic!Our resource section consists of a vast collection of online resources to help you plan your career and enhance your job search process. In this section you will find the following:
Career Planning ApplicationsLet Going Global help you with your international job search.   Online Job Posting DatabaseYear-round job opportunities including opportunities for full-time, part-time, permanent, temporary, and summer positions can be on our database. It is updated daily.
Vault Online Career InsiderVault is the world’s leading source of Career Intelligence. It will make your efforts at researching employers, industries, and career subjects infinitely easier and more efficient. Whether you are just exploring possible career paths or you are ready for your interview, Career Insider can help!
Workshops will provide basic feedback and suggestions regarding your resume, cover letter, job search and interview skills. Your Career Advisor will follow up and help you create a more targeted and career specific resume building on what you have learned during the various workshops.Over the past few years we have accumulated over 100 titles that cover such topics as resume writing, cover letter writing, interviewing, networking, job search, and career management guides, as well as employer's directories and much more. The available titles can be loaned out for a 24 hour period to current JMSB students that are registered with our office. If you borrow resources on a Friday, you must return them by the next business day. To borrow a book you need to present your student ID card to the CMS Receptionist.

Books may be borrowed for a maximum of three days with valid ID.Career Fair, Panel Presentations, Information or Recruitment SessionsA wide range of monthly career events will provide you with the chance to meet with company representatives from a variety of industries, develop insight, build contacts and explore opportunities.
On-Campus RecruitmentA recruitment campaign whereby employers come to JMSB to in the fall to actively recruit students who will be graduating in the spring.
Career Roadmap for International Student Excellence   C-RISEAre you a JMSB international student interested in working in Canada after graduation? Not sure how to build a network or find a job in Quebec? Mapping your career path takes time and students need help with directions before they graduate. Let CMS help point the way and prepare you for opportunities in Montreal and the rest of Canada.The C-RISE programs offered through Career Management Services include, the International Student Career Seminars, networking events, and mock interviews with employers tailored specifically for JMSB international students.See what JMSB International Students had to say about participating in the International Student Career Seminar and other C-RISE Events.UndergraduatesAurélien Marogssian BComm in International Business JMSB 2016 (France)https://youtu.be/Gx0oqw_sAKcYingxin (Cynthia) Wu BComm in Finance JMSB 2016 (China)https://youtu.be/hb6k2TJsodQGuanfu Teng BComm in Accounting and Finance JMSB 2018 (China)https://youtu.be/ATjOMQGudrEGraduate StudentsGanpathi Ramakrishnan Master of Business Administration, JMSB 2018 (India)https://youtu.be/EYSILo3hT_YElizabeth Gibson Graduate Diploma in Business Administration JMSB 2016 (Venezuela)https://youtu.be/Y0SeeNLguTk For more information contact Susanne Thorup: susanne.thorup@concordia.caEnhance your interview skills by signing up for a Mock In-Person Interview with one of our trained volunteers. This opportunity will provide you with valuable experience and insight into the typical interview process, commonly used by employers at the first stage and second of recruitment.For more information and to submit your request for an interview, please refer to Job ID: 13932 found under the job postings tab in ConneXions.DOCSE And CMS Sustainable Internship Program:
The David O’Brien Centre for Sustainable Enterprise (DOCSE) and JMSB’s Career Management Services (CMS) have teamed up to create the DOCSE and CMS Sustainable Internship Program. The program is to give undergraduate and graduate students at the John Molson School of Business (JMSB) the opportunity to gain valuable and related hands-on experience within the domain of sustainability. Postings are available on the ConneXions Career Portal.The Career Management Services (CMS) Volunteer Program provides amazing opportunities for active JMSB students, at both the undergraduate and graduate level, to get involved and work on developing a wide range of skills through roles that will encourage training, active involvement and participation in daily CMS services.Welcome Back to JMSB! Whether you are looking for a new job, making a job transition, looking to share some knowledge or insight, and/or wanting to hire or connect with present JMSB students, CMS can help. Visit our CMS Alumni page.

If you would like to join, please login to your LinkedIn account at www.linkedin.com and search for JMSB Alumni Chapter.Attend a career eventShare your success storyContact us© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityServices offeredJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            Connect with usKey resourcesJoin the conversationCareer Advising
                
            
                
					
                    Career Planning Tools
                
            
                
					
                    Career Related Workshops
                
            
                
					
                    Career Resource Library
                
            
                
					
                    Employer Career Events
                
            
                
					
                    International Student Career Seminars- CMS JMSB
                
            
                
					
                    Mock Interview Program
                
            
                
					
                    Sustainability
                
            
                
					
                    Volunteer Program
                
            
                
					
                    Alumni ServicesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424