http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/philosophy-ma.htmlThe central focus of philosophy is developing rigorous conceptual frameworks and methods of conceptual analysis adequate to addressing fundamental questions about reality and human life, including questions about the direction we’re headed in as humans.  By cultivating your philosophical ability at the MA level you’ll be in a position to wrestle with some of our most significant concerns: the basis of ethical action, human rights, global justice or our relationship with the environment.At Concordia, we specialize in and encompass both Anglo-American and Continental-European approaches, as well as the history of philosophy.Our MA students are looking at topics such as: Global justice, Kant’s metaphysics, Merleau-Ponty and traumatic memory, as well as Levinas’s ethics.We offer a personalized learning environment, supported by a community of committed professors.Our students are well-placed to continue in the field by pursuing doctoral studies and many are now working at universities around the world.  Whatever your path, clarity of thought and careful reasoning, along with familiarity with the history of ideas, will prove invaluable assets.See full degree requirements in the graduate calendar.You may choose one of two options.We encourage students who plan to continue their studies at the doctoral level to write a research paper (option A). You’ll finish with a strong writing sample to submit with your application to a PhD program, and you may also submit the paper for graduate and professional conferences or journals.You may choose to take the equivalent of six credits at other Quebec universities, including Université de Montréal, McGill University, or the Université du Québec à Montréal, with permission from the Graduate Program Director. Admission Requirements. An honours degree in philosophy, or its equivalent. Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be required to take up to 12 undergraduate credits in addition to and as a part of the regular graduate program. Applicants with deficiencies in their undergraduate preparation may be required to take a qualifying program.If you have a Bachelor's degree in another discipline, with at least 24 credits in Philosophy, you may be eligible to undertake a qualifying year program. Please get in touch with our Graduate Program Director to discuss your options. Your completed application will include:Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures.The list below covers all general deadlines. Note that February 1st deadline is for appliations with full consideration of funding. The Philosophy Department accepts applications up to July 15th in the MA program.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Courses typically offered include:Consult the graduate calendar for a list of courses and our department site for current courses offered.We’re committed to providing students the support they need to focus on their studies. Top students benefit from scholarships and teaching assistantships, and all students are eligible for conference awards and other funding.Please also consult the Philosophy Department’s funding page and Financial Aid and Awards.Choose your supervisor from amongst leading researchers.  Speak to the graduate program director to discuss the process of selecting a supervisor.Review an inspiring list of Major Research Papers and thesis topics.Our graduates have gone onto universities around the world, including the University of Oxford, McGill University, University of Southern California, Université de Montréal, University of Toronto, LMU Munich, and others.An MA in Philosophy also positions you to teach in Quebec’s Cegep system.We believe that clarity of thought and careful reasoning, along with familiarity with the history of ideas, will prove to be invaluable skills, whatever your career path.  Read more about philosophy and the job market.Email: Dina.Tavares@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2501Location: 
 2100 Mackay St., PR 202
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 2J1Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityPhilosophy (MA)Program options & degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application process
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Funding
                
            
                
					
                    Finding your supervisors
                
            
                
					
                    Emerging ideas – student projects
                
            
                
					
                    Your professional future
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a Master's in philosophy?Related ProgramsMaster of Arts (MA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424