http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/physics-phd.htmlThe PhD program in physics is a research oriented, thesis-based degree program. It focuses on both fundamental and applied concepts of physics that reflect faculty research specializations. Program students receive an advanced training in up-to-date, general and field specific scientific literature and modern methodology together leading to novel research accomplishments that are publishable in peer reviewed scientific journals.The main research fields the students can chose research topics from are: biophysics, computational physics and molecular modeling, condensed matter physics, laser optics and photonics, nano-scale and mesoscopic physics, particle physics, physics in education, and thin film physics. As indicated by the list above the department promotes research both in the traditional areas as well as in interdisciplinary fields. We take broad approach to the science of physics and explore also the interfaces between traditional and emerging fields.Requirements for the DegreeAdmission Requirements. The normal requirement for admission is a Master of Science degree in Physics with high standing from a recognized university. Meritorious students enrolled in the Master of Science program in Physics at this university who have completed all requirements except for the thesis may apply for permission to proceed directly to doctoral studies without submitting a master’s thesis.Your completed application will include:Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures. *Late applications may be considered, please contact the Program Director.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.For Canadian citizens or permanent residents:
Late applications will be considered depending on availabilities of open positions and/or funding.

For international applicants:
Keep in mind that to obtain the necessary travel documents in some countries may take several months. For this reason late applications may not be considered for international students.CoursesAll courses are worth 3 credits each unless otherwise specified. The graduate courses offered by the Department of Physics fall into the following categories:PHYS 600-609 Topics in Quantum and High Energy Physics
 PHYS 630-639 Topics in Condensed Matter Physics
 PHYS 640-649 Topics in Theoretical Physics
 PHYS 670-679 Topics in Applied PhysicsTopics in Quantum and High Energy Physics (600-609)PHYS 601 Advanced Quantum Mechanics I (3 credits)
This course reviews the mathematical foundations of quantum mechanics, Heisenberg, Schroedinger, and interaction representations; time-dependent perturbation theory and the golden rule; collision theory, Born approximation, T-matrix and phase shifts; angular momentum theory: eigenvalues and eigenvectors, spherical harmonics, rotations and spin, additions theorems and their applications.
Note: Students who have received credit for PHYS 612 may not take this course for credit.PHYS 602 Advanced Quantum Mechanics II (3 credits)
The following applications are examined: non-relativistic theory - systems of identical particles, second quantization, Hartree-Fock theory, as well as path integral formulation of quantum mechanics; relativistic theory: Dirac and Klein-Gordon equations, positron theory, propogator theory and their applications; field quantization, radiative effects, Dirac and Majorana spinors, Noether’s theorem.
Note: Students who have received credit for PHYS 613 may not take this course for credit.PHYS 603 High Energy Physics (3 credits)
This course discusses symmetries and groups; antiparticles; electrodynamics of spinless particles, the Dirac equation and its implications for the electrodynamics of spin 1/2 particles. A general discussion of loops, renormalization and running coupling constants, hadronic structure and partons, is used to introduce the principles of Quantum Chromodynamics and Electroweak Interactions. The course concludes with an exposition of gauge symmetries, the Weinberg-Salam model, and Grand Unification.
Note: Students who have received credit for PHYS 616 may not take this course for credit.PHYS 609 Selected Topics in Quantum or High Energy Physics (3 credits)
This course reflects the research interests of the physics faculty in quantum or high energy physics and/or those of the graduate students working with them.
Note: Students who have taken the same topic under PHYS 615, PHYS 618 or PHYS 619 may not take this course for credit.Topics in Condensed Matter Physics (630-639)PHYS 636 Condensed Matter Physics I (3 credits)
Review of electron levels in periodic potentials, various band-structure methods, Thomas-Fermi and Hartree-Fock theories, screening, anharmonic effects crystals, inhomogeneous semiconductors, p-n junctions, transistors. Dielectric properties of insulators, ferroelectric materials. Defects in crystals. Magnetic ordering, paramagnetism, diamagnetism, ferromagnetism, phase transitions, superconductivity.PHYS 637 Condensed Matter Physics II (3 credits)
This course provides a review of the phonon modes and electron band structure of crystals. It covers a selection of modern quantum condensed‑matter topics which may include Hartree‑Fock, mesoscopic quantum transport theory (quantum dots, 1D systems, 2D systems), superconductivity, the quantum Hall effects, weak localization, and current research topics. Students further develop an in-depth knowledge of the course material through an individual project.PHYS 639 Selected Topics in Condensed Matter Physics (3 credits)
This course reflects the research interests of the physics faculty in condensed matter physics and/or those of the graduate students working with them.
Note: Students who have received credit for PHYS 635 may not take this course for credit.Topics in Theoretical Physics (640-649)PHYS 642 Statistical Physics (3 credits)
This course covers statistical concepts, probability, Gaussian probability distribution, statistical ensemble, macrostates and microstates, thermodynamic probability, statistical thermodynamics, reversible and irreversible processes, entropy, thermodynamic laws and statistical relations, partition functions, Maxwell’s distribution, phase transformation, Maxwell-Boltzmann, Bose-Einstein and Fermi-Dirac statistics, quantum statistics in the classical limit, black-body radiation, conduction electrons in metals, interacting particle system, lattice vibrations, virial coefficients, Weiss molecular field approximation.
Note: Students who have received credit for PHYS 654 may not take this course for credit.PHYS 644 Advanced Classical Mechanics and Relativity (3 credits)
This course covers generalized coordinates, Lagrange’s equations, method of Lagrange multipliers, variational formulation, Hamilton’s equations of motion, canonical transformations, Hamilton-Jacobi theory, special theory of relativity, Einstein’s axioms, Lorentz transformations, form invariance and tensors, four-vectors, gravity.
Note: Students who have received credit for PHYS 658 may not take this course for credit.PHYS 646 Electrodynamics (3 credits)
This course covers the electrostatic boundary-value problem with Green’s function, Maxwell’s equations, energy-momentum tensor, guided waves, dielectric wave-guides, fibre optics, radiation static field, multipole radiation, velocity and acceleration field, Larmor’s formula, relativistic generalization, radiating systems, linear antenna, aperture in wave guide, scattering, Thompson scattering, Bremsstrahlung, Abraham-Lorentz equation, Breit-Wigner formula, Green’s function for Helmholtz’s equation. Noether’s theorem.PHYS 648 Non Linear Waves (3 credits)
Linear stability analysis and limitations, modulated waves and nonlinear dispersion relations, Korteweg-de Vries, sine-Gordon, and nonlinear Schrödinger equations. Hydro-dynamic, transmission-line, mechanical, lattice, and optical solitions. Applications in optical fibres, Josephson junction arrays. Inverse scattering method, conservation laws.PHYS 649 Selected Topics in Theoretical Physics (3 credits)
This course reflects the research interests of the Physics faculty in theoretical physics and/or those of the graduate students working with them.Topics in Applied Physics (670 - 679)PHYS 679 Selected Topics in Applied Physics (3 credits)
This course reflects the research interests of the Physics faculty in Applied Physics and/or those of the graduate students working with them.Seminar, Thesis, and Comprehensive ExaminationPHYS 760 MSc Seminar on Selected Topics (3 credits)
Students must give one seminar in the field of their research. In addition, full time students must participate in all seminars given in the department, and part time students must attend, during their studies, the same number of seminars that are normally given during the minimum residence requirement for full time students. The course in evaluated on a pass/fail basis. No substitution is permitted.PHYS 790 Master’s Research and Thesis (30 credits)PHYS 861 Doctoral Seminar on Selected Topics I (3 credits)
Students must present one pedagogical seminar on a topic from physics to an advanced-level undergraduate student audience. This course is evaluated on a pass/fail basis. No substitution is permitted.PHYS 862 Doctoral Seminar on Selected Topics II (3 credits)
Students must present one seminar in their current research area to a critical audience. In addition, students are required to attend and participate in all departmental seminars. This course is evaluated on a pass/fail basis. No substitution is permitted.PHYS 870 Comprehensive Examination and Research Proposal (6 credits)PHYS 890 Doctoral Research and Thesis (69 credits)
Note: Students admitted prior to 1997-98 should register for PHYS 850 (70 credits). Students admitted after summer 1997 will register for PHYS 850 (66 credits).Department research activities are collaborative. Graduate students benefit from a robust cadre of faculty research expertise. Areas of department researcher specialization include:Email: Marie-Anne.Cheongyoune@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 3270Location: 
 7141 Sherbrooke Street West, SP 365.02
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H4B 1R6Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityPhysics (PhD)Key resourcesDegree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application process
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty research interests
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a doctorate in physics?Program DetailsDoctorate (PhD)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424