http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/political-science.htmlConcordia's PhD in Political Science is unique due in large part to its emphasis on overarching policy concerns, which intersects and links the five subfields of our discipline. As such, the PhD in Political Science covers the five subfields of political science: Canadian and Québec politics, Comparative Politics, International Politics, Political Theory, and Public Policy and Public Administration.Students emerge with sound theoretical training, wide-ranging knowledge of the discipline, and competency in two major subfields. PhD students will be exposed to major methodological and theoretical debates, preparing them to make an original contribution to the discipline, and will be expected to disseminate their research through presentations in national and international conferences and publication of their academic papers.The Department is committed to maintaining graduate training in the full range of expertise contained in all the sub-fields of contemporary political science.Requirements for the DegreeAdmission RequirementsAdmission to the PhD in Political Science requires a Master of/Magisteriate in Arts in political science, political studies, international relations, public policy, or another relevant field from an accredited university. A superior academic record and strong references are both essential; professional work experience will be taken into consideration. Applicants are selected on the basis of past academic record, letters of recommendation, statement of purpose, writing sample, and the relevance of their proposed research to the research expertise in the department. Enrolment in the PhD in Political Science is limited in part by the availability of research supervisors.Proficiency in English. Any student applying from outside Canada whose first language is other than English must demonstrate proficiency in the English language by writing the Test of English as a Foreign Language administered by the Educational Testing Service. Information and applications to write the test may be obtained by writing to: Test of English as a Foreign Language, Educational Testing Service, Princeton, New Jersey, 08540, U.S.A.Your completed application will include:Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures. Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Sample classesCurriculum requirementsTo see curriculum requirements, please visit the section above on degree requirements. Course descriptionsBrowse all Political Science course descriptions in the Graduate Calendar. To foster a supportive doctorial community, the department provides PhD students with office space, competitive funding packages, top-up funding to incoming SSRCH/FQRSC holders, teaching and research assistantships, small class sizes, and dedicated and approachable faculty. The opportunity to teach courses may also be available to students having completed their comprehensive examinations. Learn more about graduate funding.You can submit the following as your writing sample: 
Email: Julie.Blumer@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2126Location: 
 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd W., H 1225-19
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 1M8Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityPolitical Science (PhD)Key resourcesDegree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application process
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Research fields
                
            
                
					
                    Financial support
                
            
                
					
                    Writing sample
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a Doctorate in Political Science?Program detailsRelated ProgramsDoctorate (PhD)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424