http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/admissions/open-house/portfolio-day.html
Get a glimpse of Open House 2016 activities...Interested in studying fine arts but nervous about submitting your portfolio? Come to Portfolio Day! You'll get one-on-one constructive feedback about your work from Fine Arts faculty members and current students.Come pay us a visit to learn more about our programs and obtain valuable application information!Sir George Williams Campus — EV 6.720, 6th floor,  from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. (registration ends at 3 p.m.)Open to anyone considering an undergraduate or graduate program at Concordia, Portfolio Day helps you prepare a strong application and increase your chances of being accepted.Portfolio Day is not a competition or an interview — it's an invaluable opportunity to see if you're on the right track, to learn about Concordia’s fine arts programs, to discuss your goals, and to start exploring possible career paths.You'll also meet other prospective students who share your passion for creating. Keep in mind that people apply with a wide variety of skills and experience. Don't be discouraged if you see work you think is "better" than yours; everyone has a different creative journey. Portfolio Day can be a little bit intimidating, but it can also be inspirational!Come early! You'll be able to speak with more professors and have a more rounded experience if you leave yourself plenty of time. Please note that newcomers will not be permitted after 3 p.m.We'll be evaluating portfolios for the following programs.
It's important to have a conversation with the professors reviewing your portfolio. They have a lot of knowledge and experience to share with you (and it doesn't hurt if they get to know you a bit!).

Here are some questions to help you get the ball rolling:
Registration is not required — participants will be admitted on a first-come, first-served basis. The doors close one hour before the end of the event. To see the most professors and get the most from your experience at Portfolio Day, arrive as early as possible. If you wait until near the end, you will most likely be disappointed. In fact, no newcomers will be allowed in after 3 p.m.For more information about Portfolio Day, drop us a line at studyfinearts@concordia.ca or visit our Facebook page. Please note: Admission and scholarship decisions will not be made during Portfolio Day.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityPortfolio DayWhat is Portfolio Day?TipsQuestions?Open House
            
                Open HouseParticipating programs
                
            
                
					
                    Other Portfolio Day events
                
            
                
					
                    What to bring to Portfolio Day
                
            
                
					
                    Prepare questions
                
            
                
					
                    Planning your dayConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424