http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/services/career/professional-code-conduct.htmlCareer Management Services (“CMS”) is proud to offer a variety of career management services to current John Molson School of Business (“JMSB”) students and alumni. Users of our services are expected to conduct themselves in a professional manner at all times as their actions affect the reputation of the JMSB, CMS and Concordia University (“University”).These Principles of Professional Conduct and Terms of Service for CMS Users (“Principles”), include behavioural guidelines which, if respected, will facilitate your career management experience. Furthermore, your respect of these Principles is appreciated by employers as by following these Principles, you clearly demonstrate your professionalism as well as the professionalism of JMSB students and of students of the University.

CMS is committed to provide all current and former JMSB students with helpful and useful tools and services to assist them with their career management process. CMS offers its services and support to all: (i) registered graduate students; (ii) undergraduate students currently pursuing a major, diploma or a certificate through JMSB; as well as (iii) JMSB alumni. If you are not a member of one of these groups (i.e., you are only taking a minor in JMSB), you may not use the CMS’s services. 

CMS provides its services with professionalism, courtesy and respect, adheres to ethical guidelines and does not engage in discriminatory behaviour. CMS represents JMSB and its student body in a professional manner to local, national and international employers.
 You are expected to respect the times scheduled for your appointments with your advisor. Preferably, you should arrive 10 minutes before your scheduled appointment and sign in with the CMS receptionist. You are required to bring a paper copy of your resume to your first appointment with your advisor. If you are unable to attend your scheduled appointment, you must call CMS 24-hours in advance to cancel or reschedule your appointment. 
If you wish to participate in a Clinic or Workshop, you must register online beforehand. If you arrive late to a Clinic or Workshop and it has already begun, you may not attend that Session. If you wish to attend a subsequent Clinic or Workshop, you must register for such a Session online at connexions.concordia.ca. In order to provide sufficient time for a question and answer period, all of our Clinics and Workshops start on the hour (i.e. 12:00, 1:00, etc.). Please be advised that if you wish to cancel your registration for a Session, you may do so online at connexions.concordia.ca, in person at the CMS office or by email to careers@jmsb.concordia.ca. 24 hours notice is required for all registration cancellations.

Drop-in sessions, during which CMS users meet with peer advisors, are the only Sessions for which you are not required to arrive at a precise time. Rather, once registered, you may arrive at a drop-in session at any point within the scheduled time for the Session, up to 10 minutes before its scheduled end time. Due to time restrictions, each CMS user may only meet with peer advisors at drop-in sessions for a maximum period of 15 minutes per Session.
In order to participate in an employer’s networking event (including information sessions and recruitment sessions), you must register online. At the employer’s and CMS’s sole discretion, you may be prevented from participating in a networking event if you arrive after such an event has begun. Information regarding the location, date and time of networking events, as well as the description of networking events, are available at johnmolson.concordia.ca/en/career-services (the “CMS Website”). Please be advised that if you wish to cancel your registration for a networking event, you may do so online at connexions.concordia.ca in person at the CMS office, or by by email to careers@jmsb.concordia.ca . 24 hours notice is required for all registration cancellations.

Spaces are usually limited at on-campus events. By failing to honour your commitment to attend an on-campus event, you are preventing other students from taking advantage of CMS events and the career opportunities that they present. Employers will not return to CMS and to JMSB if CMS users do not respect their commitment to attend events. 

Please notify CMS as soon as possible if, due to an unforeseen emergency, you are unable to attend an event.
On-campus interviews must be cancelled a minimum of 24-hours prior to the interview by providing notice to the employer and to CMS. Failure to attend a scheduled interview will be regarded as a breach of the present Principles. If you do not present yourself to a scheduled interview, you will be required to submit a letter of apology to the employer and to CMS, within 24-hours following the scheduled interview time. If you are late for an interview, the employer may, at his/her sole discretion, cancel the interview, proceed with the interview or reschedule the interview for a later date and/or time. 

You should only apply for positions in which you are truly interested. If you wish to practice your interview skills, CMS recommends that you schedule a mock interview with a CMS advisor.
Unless otherwise stipulated by CMS, professional business attire is mandatory at all events attended by recruiters, employers and/or corporate clients. Access to an event may be denied by CMS staff if, in the opinion of the CMS staff, you are not dressed professionally.
Once registered for an activity, current students and alumni must present themselves as promised for such activity. Failure to do so may lead to the suspension of their access to CMS’ services at CMS’ sole discretion. In order to cancel their registration, students and alumni must provide at least 24 hours’ notice via the de-registration function on the CMS Website or by email to careers@jmsb.concordia.ca.
JMSB Alumni have complimentary access to the CMS following their graduation. Access to the CMS Website allows alumni to view job postings, consult resource materials, and register for workshops and events that are open to the alumni population. 

Furthermore, CMS offers complimentary career advising for up to one year after graduation (based on the month the alumnus/alumna completed his/her program of study). Career advising sessions can be used to explore new career paths, review application materials (cover letter, résumé), conduct mock interviews, or develop a job search strategy. After this one year period, alumni who require a career advising appointment will be required to pay $50 per session. Payment must be made by cheque to “Concordia University – JMSB Career Management Services”.

Additionally, for a fee, alumni have access to the CareerLeader Business Career Self-Assessment, a market-leading self-assessment tool that is designed to identify one’s interests, motivators and skills. Alumni who have graduated for over a year will be required to pay the reduced fee of $80 CAD to cover test administration fees (the regular price for this test is $95 US). Test administration fees are subject to change without further notice. Payment must be made by cheque to “Concordia University – JMSB Career Management Services”. Test takers have 60 days from the time access to the test is granted to complete the test and review results.You are expected to demonstrate a level of professionalism and courtesy that reflects positively on what being a JMSB student and what being a student at the University represents. All communication, whether oral or written, with CMS staff and with employers must be accurate, honest and professional. The misrepresentation of information in resumes and cover letters, during interviews or at any time during the recruitment process, will negatively affect your reputation as well as the reputation of CMS, JMSB and the University and limit your employment opportunities.
CMS reserves the right to decide which job postings it posts. It is your responsibility to ensure that you comply with the minimum requirements set forth in a posting prior to submitting an application and to only submit an application if you meet or exceed such minimum requirements. 

Occasionally, after a job posting has been posted on the CMS Website, an employer will provide CMS with additional clarification as to the minimum requirements for such posting. Further to receiving such clarification, CMS reserves the right to only provide the employer with those applications that meet the minimum requirements for the posting. CMS will normally notify an applicant whose application is not provided to the employer for the above reason, but, at its sole and absolute discretion, may choose not to do so.
Upon receiving a job offer, it is important for you to promptly notify the employer whether or not you accept that job offer. Your oral or written acceptance of a job offer constitutes a contractual agreement between you and the employer and, as such, you must honor your acceptance and respect your commitment. It is unethical and unprofessional to retract your acceptance of a job offer or to continue attending interviews after you have accepted a job. 

Further information about ethical guidelines may be found at cacee.com/recruitment.htmlCMS takes precautions to protect your personal information. Access to CMS services is strictly limited to active JMSB students and alumni. In order to maintain the confidentiality of job postings and of employers, you may not disclose your password or  job postings to others. Disclosing such confidential information, even to fellow JMSB students or alumni, is a breach of these Principles and CMS reserves the right to limit or terminate your right to use its services upon such a breach. As a registrant and user of services provided by CMS, you provide CMS with your personal information. CMS does not disclose your personal information to third parties without your consent. 

You are solely responsible for personal information that you provide directly to employers. 

The CMS Website contains links to external websites that are intended to assist you in exploring various employment options and vacancies. CMS, JMSB and/or the University are not responsible for the content of external websites, nor are they responsible for the privacy guidelines of these other sites. You are encouraged to verify the privacy policies of sites linked to by the CMS Website and to use your own judgment regarding the accuracy and the reliability of the information they contain.
CMS is not responsible for any false or misleading information provided to you whether such information is presented on the CMS Website or directly by an employer, whether such information is presented in a job posting or in another manner, and whether such information is presented prior to or after employment. CMS acts only as an intermediary between employers posting job opportunities and candidates searching for job opportunities. You should verify information prior to applying for any position and should verify the credentials of all employers.

The content included in the CMS Website or obtained therefrom is provided on an ‘as is’ ‘as available’ basis and CMS, JMSB and the University disclaim all warranties express or implied, including the warranties of accuracy, completeness, timeliness or fitness for a particular purpose of any information or content acquired through the use of the CMS Website. You use the information obtained from or through the CMS Website at your own risk. 
 
 CMS, JMSB and the University shall not be liable for the actions or conduct of employers during the recruitment process as well as after you have been employed. 
 
 In no event shall CMS, JMSB or the University be liable to you for any indirect, special, incidental, consequential, punitive or loss of profits, regardless of the form of action in relation to use of CMS service or the CMS Website, even if CMS, JMSB or the University has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

If you encounter any difficulties with employers with which CMS has a relationship or if you find inaccuracies in information presented by these employers or on the CMS Website, please contact CMS immediately.
These Principles shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Province of Quebec and the laws of Canada applicable therein. You hereby irrevocably attorn to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the District of Montreal in the Province of Quebec, Canada for any legal proceedings arising out of this agreement or the performance of the obligations hereunder.

If you do not adhere to these Procedures, CMS reserves the right to limit or terminate your right to use its services. The final decision in all such cases shall be rendered by the Director of CMS.Effective March 1, 2013, several modifications will be implemented on “Connexions”, the John Molson School of Business (“JMSB”) Career Management Services (“CMS”) web portal. There will also be modifications to the delivery of career services to certain client populations. These changes all aim to maintain the high quality of service delivered by CMS and to ensure productive user experiences for our stakeholders, namely students, alumni and employers.1.       For StudentsCMS is dedicated to enriching the JMSB experience by providing superior career-related resources, information and advising services. We aim to help students develop effective career management skills which will enable them to reach their career aspirations and goals. CMS collaborates with the business community to better understand their recruitment needs and communicates this information to job-seekers. To maintain the quality of these relationships and the reputation of the business school, students are expected to adhere to the “Principles of Professional Conduct and Terms of Service for CMS Users” at all times.  1.1. Absentee Policy: Three Absences to Result in Complete Suspension of CMS “Connexions” web portal and career servicesStudents who have registered to attend an event (advising session, workshop, drop-in session, career café, networking event, employer information session, or employer event) but fail to attend on more than three occasions will see their access to the CMS “Connexions” web portal and additional services suspended for a period to be determined at CMS’s sole discretion. To avoid this, students must provide at least 24 hours’ notice to cancel their event registration and may do so via the de-registration function on “Connexions” or by email to careers@jmsb.concordia.ca2.       For AlumniSubject to their respect of the terms set forth herein, graduates of JMSB are entitled to use CMS resources and services to further develop their career. CMS collaborates with the business community to better understand their recruitment needs and communicates this information to job-seekers. To maintain the quality of these relationships and the reputation of JMSB, alumni are also expected to adhere to the “Principles of Professional Conduct and Terms of Service for CMS Users” at all times.2.1. Alumni User Fees-Career Advising: JMSB Alumni have complimentary access to “Connexions” for a limited time following their graduation. This access allows alumni to view job postings, consult resource materials, and register for workshops and events that are open to the alumni population. CMS offers complimentary career advising for up to one year after graduation (based on the month the alumnus/alumna completed his/her program of study). Career Advising sessions can be used to explore new career paths, review application materials (cover letter, résumé), conduct mock interviews, or develop a job search strategy. After this one year period, alumni who require a career advising appointment will be required to pay $50 per session. Payment must be made by cheque to “Concordia University – JMSB Career Management Services”.-CareerLeader Business Career Self-Assessment Test: CareerLeader is a market-leading self-assessment tool that is designed to identify one’s interests, motivators and skills. These components are rooted in one’s career success and overall satisfaction. Alumni who have graduated for over a year and want to take the test will be required to pay the reduced fee of $80CAD to cover test administration fees (the regular price for this test is $95US). Test administration fees are subject to change without further notice. Payment must be made by cheque to “Concordia University – JMSB Career Management Services”.  Test takers have 90 days from the time the test is purchased to complete the test and review results.2.2. Absentee Policy: Three Absences to Result in Complete Suspension of CMS “Connexions” web portal and career servicesAlumni who have registered to attend an event (advising session, workshop, drop-in session, career café, networking event, employer information session, or employer event) but fail to attend on more than three occasions will see their access to the CMS “Connexions” web portal and additional services suspended. To avoid this, alumni must provide 24 hours’ notice to cancel their event registration and may do so via the de-registration function on “Connexions” or by email to careers@jmsb.concordia.ca3.       For EmployersCMS strives to support our employment partners by helping create brand awareness on campus and by fulfilling their recruitment needs. Recruiting at JMSB is a simple and effective process: CMS is committed to connecting employers with the school’s top talent. The centre offers a portfolio of services to strengthen on-campus branding and recruitment efforts.3.1. Employer User FeesModifications will be made to the job posting service.-Complimentary service: Job postings and internship postings targeting current students, new graduates and recent graduates having completed their studies within the last five years will remain free of charge if posted by the employer. Should a CMS staff member be required to post on behalf of the employer, a $50 service fee will be charged per posting.-Job posting fee: Job postings targeting experienced hires/alumni having graduated more than five years (i.e., applicants with over five years work experience) will be charged $100 per posting.-Third Party Recruiters: Job postings and internship postings posted by recruitment agencies, talent search companies, and headhunters will be required to pay an annual fee of $1200 to have unlimited access to the CMS job board and graduate student databases.3.2. Unpaid internshipsAll postings must offer monetary compensation. CMS will no longer post unpaid internships. Internships that involve barters (trading services/products/goods without exchanging compensation) will not be posted by CMS. Exceptions will be made for not-for-profit organizations or for supervised projects with an academic learning/credit component.3.3. Posting DurationThe maximum duration for all postings (jobs and internships) is limited to 60 days. Postings can be renewed and application deadlines can be changed accordingly. Exceptions can be made for opportunities announced at employer events held over 30 days prior to the application deadline.Attend a career eventShare your success storyContact us© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityPrinciples of professional conduct and terms of service for CMS usersJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            Connect with usKey resourcesJoin the conversation1.0: Participation and Attendance
                
            
                
					
                    2.0: Ethics and Professional Conduct
                
            
                
					
                    3.0: Confidentiality
                
            
                
					
                    4.0: Important Provisions
                
            
                
					
                    Read modificationsIMPORTANT MODIFICATIONS TO THE USAGE OF JOHN MOLSON SCHOOL OF BUSINESS’ CAREER MANAGEMENT SERVICES WEB PORTAL “CONNEXIONS” AND ACCESS TO CAREER SERVICESConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-24241.1: One-on-One Advising Appointments1.2: Clinics (Clinic), Career Workshops (Workshop) and Drop-in Sessions (all referred to generally as “Session”)1.3: Networking Events1.4:  Interviews1.5: Professional Dress1.6: Attendance1.7: Fees for Use of CMS Services by Alumni2.1: Internal and External Communications2.2: Job postings2.3: Job Offers4.1:  CMS and Your Information4.2: Limitation of Liability4.3: Governing Law