http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/psychology-ma.htmlOur graduate program offers studies in both basic and applied psychology leading to the PhD degree. At the beginning of graduate studies in psychology, students are admitted to the master's program, either the research option or the research and clinical training option. Both options have the same research requirements, which include completion of a master's thesis. The clinical training option also includes training in the delivery of professional services (through the Certificate in Clinical Psychology).Students who successfully complete a Master's degree are expected to continue in the program toward a PhD degree.  The doctoral program provides advanced research training, culminating in the PhD thesis for all students, and advanced clinical training for those following the Clinical Profile.  The clinical training program is accredited by both the Canadian and American Psychological Associations and by the Ordre des psychologues du Québec.Research option

Our research option emphasizes independent research and scholarship, and prepares students for research careers. Research programs are planned and initiated as soon as students enter the M.A. program, and constitute the major occupation of students during each year in both the master's and doctoral programs. The master's degree requires a minimum of one year of full-time study and involves -- in addition to the thesis -- course work in psychological theory and advanced statistics, seminars in the student's area of research specialization (Behavioural Neuroscience, Clinical and Health Research, Cognitive Science, or Human Development and Developmental Processes), and directed teaching in our undergraduate program.
Research & clinical training option
 
The research and clinical training option is based on the scientist-practitioner model. That is, clinical students fulfill the same research requirements as other students, but they also receive professional training in the delivery of psychological services. The program's goal is to train doctoral-level clinical psychologists who not only conduct research and contribute to the scientific base of the discipline but who are also competent mental health professionals. Because research is such an important part of our program, students seeking only professional training or who do not intend to continue to the PhD degree should apply elsewhere.Admission Requirements. Admission to the PhD degree requires a master’s degree in psychology from a recognized university. Admission to the MA degree requires an honours degree in psychology or its equivalent. Enrolment in these programs is limited in part by the availability of research supervisors and, for the Research and Clinical Training Option, by space in that option.Applicants are selected on the basis of past academic record, letters of recommendation, the results of the Graduate Record Examination (optional, but highly recommended), and the relevance of their proposed research to the research expertise of the faculty. Students successfully completing their master’s program in psychology at Concordia University need submit only an application form and letters of recommendation when applying for the doctoral degree. Psychology graduate courses are not open to graduate-level independent students, except in specific circumstances as defined by the department.Upon recommendation of their thesis supervisor, students enrolled in the Master of Arts (Psychology) program at Concordia University who have completed a minimum of 12 credits of graduate level course work and who have shown high academic performance and potential through performance in research may apply for accelerated admission to doctoral studies without submitting a master’s thesis. Approval for accelerated admission must be obtained from the student’s thesis committee and the graduate admissions subcommittee by August 15 to allow entry into the PhD program in the Fall term. Students in the Research and Clinical Training option may not obtain accelerated admission to the PhD program from MA Year I, but may apply for accelerated admission, upon recommendation of their thesis supervisor, from MA Year II.Your completed application will include:Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures, and the full instructions for completing the application.Note: Direct admission to the Diploma in Clinical Psychology is not available, please contact the Psychology department for more information.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Sample classesBrowse all Psychology course descriptions in the Graduate Calendar.Behaviour neuroscience, clinical and health research, human development and developmental processes, and cognitive science. Each area has been defined so as to include a broad range of psychologists’ activities with respect to the problem, from pure research to applications. Students are expected to master both the basic and applied literature in their particular area. Programs of individual students vary in the relative emphasis on basic and applied research.Students in good standing in our program are guaranteed financial support.   We are able to guarantee funding because our faculty are successful in attaining external grants which provide research assistantships, and because many of our graduate students receive scholarships from the university and outside agencies. Many students are also employed as teaching assistants for undergraduate courses.Effective September 2016, the minimum level of funding offered students within normal residence is $17,500 per year, however the average level of financial support for incoming students is $20,000. Funding is guaranteed during normal residence (that is for 2 years in the MA program and for 3 years in the Ph.D. program).Email: psychology.graduate@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2205Location: 
 7141 Sherbrooke W., SP 244-13
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H4B 2A7Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityPsychology (MA)Key resourcesProgram options & degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application process
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty research interests
                
            
                
					
                    Funding
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a Master's in psychology?Program detailsRelated ProgramsMaster of Arts (MA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424