http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/psychology-phd.htmlThe Doctor of Philosophy in Psychology (PhD) degree program is the continuation of study and research activities undertaken by students who have completed MA degree requirements. Like the Master’s level program, the PhD program offers studies in both basic and applied psychology. The Research and Clinical Training Option enables PhD students who fulfill degree requirements and successfully defend their research dissertation to achieve a high level of research specialization and expertise.

The Research and Clinical Training Option also offers advanced clinical courses and instruction in the delivery of professional services. The program is fully accredited by the Ordre des Psychologues du Quebec, the Canadian Psychological Association, and the American Psychological Association. The program includes:Graduate programs in psychology offer four research specializations:Students participate in research teams comprised of faculty members and other graduate students organized around these four specializations. This team approach provides students with outstanding training in a diverse range of innovative research areas.Research option

Our research option emphasizes independent research and scholarship, and prepares students for research careers. Research programs are planned and initiated as soon as students enter the M.A. program, and constitute the major occupation of students during each year in both the master's and doctoral programs. The master's degree requires a minimum of one year of full-time study and involves -- in addition to the thesis -- course work in psychological theory and advanced statistics, seminars in the student's area of research specialization (Behavioural Neuroscience, Clinical and Health Research, Cognitive Science, or Human Development and Developmental Processes), and directed teaching in our undergraduate program.
Research & clinical training option
 
The research and clinical training option is based on the scientist-practitioner model. That is, clinical students fulfill the same research requirements as other students, but they also receive professional training in the delivery of psychological services. The program's goal is to train doctoral-level clinical psychologists who not only conduct research and contribute to the scientific base of the discipline but who are also competent mental health professionals. Because research is such an important part of our program, students seeking only professional training or who do not intend to continue to the PhD degree should apply elsewhere.Requirements for the DegreeCredits. A fully-qualified candidate is required to complete a minimum of 90 credits, including Core courses and elective Options.Consult the graduate calendar for the full degree requirements.Admission Requirements. Admission to the PhD degree requires a master’s degree in psychology from a recognized university. Admission to the MA degree requires an honours degree in psychology or its equivalent. Enrolment in these programs is limited in part by the availability of research supervisors and, for the Research and Clinical Training Option, by space in that option.Applicants are selected on the basis of past academic record, letters of recommendation, the results of the Graduate Record Examination (optional, but highly recommended), and the relevance of their proposed research to the research expertise of the faculty. Students successfully completing their master’s program in psychology at Concordia University need submit only an application form and letters of recommendation when applying for the doctoral degree. Psychology graduate courses are not open to graduate-level independent students, except in specific circumstances as defined by the department.Upon recommendation of their thesis supervisor, students enrolled in the Master of Arts (Psychology) program at Concordia University who have completed a minimum of 12 credits of graduate level course work and who have shown high academic performance and potential through performance in research may apply for accelerated admission to doctoral studies without submitting a master’s thesis. Approval for accelerated admission must be obtained from the student’s thesis committee and the graduate admissions subcommittee by August 15 to allow entry into the PhD program in the Fall term. Students in the Research and Clinical Training option may not obtain accelerated admission to the PhD program from MA Year I, but may apply for accelerated admission, upon recommendation of their thesis supervisor, from MA Year II.Your completed application will include:Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures, and the full instructions for completing the application.Note: Direct admission to the Diploma in Clinical Psychology is not available, please contact the Psychology department for more information.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Core Courses:Research Option (18 credits):In addition to the core courses, students select from the following sets of courses for a maximum of 18 credits:PSYC 700, 701, 714, 716, 721, 724, 725, 726,727, 734, 850, or 851 (6-15 credits). Special Topics seminars PSYC 721, 724, 725, 726, and 727 may be taken up to 5 times as an elective option provided the topic differs.Research and Clinical Training Option (18 credits):In addition to the core courses, students select from the following sets of courses for a maximum of 18 credits:Browse all Psychology course descriptions in the Graduate Calendar.Students select a thesis supervisor with the same scholarly interests in at least one of the following specializations and enroll in laboratory seminars and area tutorials organized around that specialization (or specializations).Students in good standing in our program are guaranteed financial support.   We are able to guarantee funding because our faculty are successful in attaining external grants which provide research assistantships, and because many of our graduate students receive scholarships from the university and outside agencies. Many students are also employed as teaching assistants for undergraduate courses.Effective September 2009, the minimum level of funding offered students within normal residence is $15,000 per year, however the average level of financial support for incoming students is $20,000. Funding is guaranteed during normal residence (that is for 2 years in the MA program and for 3 years in the Ph.D. program.Graduates of the Research and Clinical Training Option are trained clinical psychologists who can conduct research and contribute to the scientific base of the discipline, as well as serve as competent mental health professionals.They work in clinical and/or academic psychology with a wide variety of client populations in such settings as hospitals, universities, health care clinics and private practice. Their professional activities include assessment, therapy, intervention, research, teaching, clinical supervision, professional consultation, and program planning and evaluation.Graduates also find career opportunities in academic and industry settings.Email: psychology.graduate@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2205Location: 
 7141 Sherbrooke W., SP 244-13
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H4B 2A7Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityPsychology (PhD)Key resourcesProgram options & degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application process
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Research specializations
                
            
                
					
                    Funding
                
            
                
					
                    Career streams
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a doctorate in psychology?Program detailsRelated ProgramsDoctorate (PhD)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Course descriptions