http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/public-policy-administration.htmlThe MA in Public Policy and Public Administration (MPPPA) dynamically blends academic excellence with professional expertise for those who wish to become creative participants in the shaping of their community.The MPPPA program gives you maximum flexibility for earning your degree. We offer:OptionsOption A. Courses Only
Option B. InternshipUpon application, students enter Option A (MPPPA with Courses only). Once admitted to the program, students have the opportunity to transfer to Option B (MPPPA with Internship). To enter the Internship option students must complete the prescribed coursework and normally achieve a minimum GPA of 3.30.Learn more about the program options.Master of/Magisteriate in Arts (Public Policy and Public Administration)Option A (Courses Only)Master of/Magisteriate in Arts (Public Policy and Public Administration)Option B (Internship)Language Requirement: All Option B candidates must pass an examination in French based on a test administered by the Department. This exam consists of translating a passage of literature, relevant to the field, from French into English.Admission Requirements. An undergraduate honours degree or the equivalent is required. Students who do not have the necessary background in public policy and public administration may be required to take specific undergraduate courses in addition to the regular program. In certain cases, applicants may be required to complete a qualifying program in order to be eligible for admission to the graduate program.Students who were educated outside Canada and whose mother tongue is neither English nor French will be required to successfully complete TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language) or the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) exam before being admitted.Your completed application will include:Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures. Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.CoursesAll courses are one-term, 3-credit courses unless otherwise indicated. Some sections of some courses may be offered in French.Core Courses for students in Options A and BPOLI 636 Theories of Public Policy and Public Administration
 POLI 644 Research MethodsStudents must also take one of the following five core courses:POLI 600 Public Policy and the Governmental Process in Canada
 POLI 604 Comparative Public Policy
 POLI 618 Canadian Public Administration
 POLI 622 Comparative Public Administration
 POLI 624 Public Administration of Intergovernmental Affairs.Course descriptionsBrowse all Political Science course descriptions in the Graduate Calendar.Course descriptionsBrowse all Psychology course descriptions in the Graduate Calendar.Course descriptionsBrowse all Psychology course descriptions in the Graduate Calendar.There are many funding opportunities for MPPPA students, including departmental teaching and research assistantships, university-wide awards and fellowships, and provincial and federal funding through SSHRC and FQRSC respectively. Learn more about MPPPA graduate funding.An internship is a 21-credit academic course POLI 693, conducted in the workplace: An experiential learning exercise enabling the intern to learn first-hand about their chosen profession, upon which they build their career.Learn more about the Internship.Email: Julie.Blumer@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2126Location: 
 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd W., H 1225-19
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 1M8Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityPublic Policy and Public Administration (MA)Key resourcesProgram options & degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application process
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Research fields
                
            
                
					
                    Financial support
                
            
                
					
                    Internship
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a Master's in Public Policy and Public Administration?Program detailsRelated ProgramsMaster of Arts (MA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424