http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/religion-phd.htmlThe Doctoral degree in Religion is offered conjointly with the Département des sciences des religions of the Université du Québec à Montréal and the Faculté de théologie et de sciences religieuses of the Université Laval. Each student is graduated by the university of their registration. The joint degree provides a context for collaboration between the three departments, with some exchange of faculty for teaching and direction. There are two required doctoral seminars, one of which is common to students at all three universities in alternate years.Ph.D. applicants should familiarize themselves with the department profile and supporting faculty. Candidates will have background in religious studies and language training relevant for their research.  Admission to the Ph.D. will take into account an applicant's training and background as well as faculty support for an applicant's proposed thesis.All applications must be submitted online.All applicants should consult the graduate calendar, which clearly outlines program requirements and regulations.*Fall: Late applications will be considered until May 1, without funding.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures.The doctoral program in Religion at Concordia places emphasis on social-scientific and comparative approaches to religion; cultural, philosophical, and historical studies; and the investigation of texts and manuscripts. The program offers advanced training in the study of major world religions (Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, and Judaism) and traditions in particular regional contexts (Religions of Iran, Religions of Southern Asia, and Religions of China and Tibet). The department is distinguished by its interdisciplinary field areas spanning multiple traditions: Contemporary Religion and Popular Culture; Contemporary Theory, Ethics, and Philosophy; Religions and Cultures in Late Antiquity; and Women, Gender, and Sexuality. Students are expected to develop expertise in multiple traditions and field areas.Within Judaic studies, faculty are pursuing research on the religion and culture of Jews in the Roman Empire, the popularization of Jewish mysticism in the sixteenth century, the twentieth century Orthodox rabbinate, Jewish law, women in contemporary Judaism, North American Jewish literature, the Canadian Jewish experience, and factors involved in the making of modern Jewish identity.For further information:
Tina Montandon
Graduate Program Assistant
Telephone: 514-848-2424, ext. 2077
E-mail:
Tina.Montandon@concordia.ca
Carly Daniel-Hughes
Graduate Program Director, Ph.D. in Religion
Telephone: 514-848-2424, ext. 5733
E-mail: Carly.DanielHughes@concordia.ca Email: Tina.Montandon@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2077Location: 
 2060 Mackay, FA 101
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 2J1Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityReligion (PhD)Why pursue a PhD in Religion?Key resourcesAdmission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Program Requirements and Forms
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty research interests
                
            Contact usRelated ProgramsDoctorate (PhD)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Important forms and information