http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/releases/2015/07/15/researchers-find-dangerous-byproducts-in-pco-system-filters.htmlMontreal, July 15, 2015 — Imagine if, in an effort to clean the air more efficiently, you were involuntarily introducing chemicals more dangerous than the ones you were trying to scrub. Concordia researchers have found that this exact situation is happening with a type of air filter called photocatalytic oxidation (PCO), a product already on the market. The chemical by-product? Formaldehyde, a known human carcinogen.In a paper published in the journal Building and Environment, recent doctoral graduate Lexuan Zhong and her supervisor Fariborz Haghighat present the findings of their independent testing of the PCO systems, which filter air using ultraviolet light. This is the first time the systems have been independently tested. “We were shocked that some of the gases to come through the system are more dangerous than the original gas,” says Haghighat, who is a professor with the Department of Building, Civil and Environmental Engineering and Concordia University Research Chair of Energy and Environment.With countries like China and Korea eager to fix growing air pollution problems, engineers and consumers desperate for new technologies have been forced to try to evaluate and compare PCO systems themselves in the absence of standards.“That’s a big problem, there’s lots of confusion in the market. We are trying to clarify that confusion and work on developing testing methods,” says Zhong.Her thesis, which developed new methods for the evaluation, was awarded Concordia's doctoral dissertation prize in 2014.The battle against chemical contaminants is a challenge because gases come from so many sources — carpets, paint, treated wood. And then there are all the perfumed products we use individually. “Sometimes the concentration of gases inside the building is almost ten times more than outside,” says Haghighat. While regulations limit percentages of chemicals in the air, there are fewer governing specific technologies.“Because it’s new technology and the public accepts whatever the industry says, if a company says it is working they believe it. But it has not been tested by a standards organization. Usually that takes time, 10 to 15 years,” he says.Besides developing systems that adequately filter without adding by-products, the other major goal is to reduce energy consumption. While the main (PCO) system currently in use employs mechanical ventilation, where fresh air is pumped in from outside and taken out from inside, the method is not very energy efficient. Neither are some other modern systems: Haghighat’s colleague Chang-Seo Lee points to activated charcoal carbon filters (which do have standards attached) as an example of a good technology but one that requires a lot more energy to operate.In terms of next steps for the investigation of PCO filtration, Lee says the lab wants to experiment with new versions of the technology. “We want to develop our own catalyst because we’ve found the commercial catalyst does not have good efficiency,” she says. Another goal is more complex testing using a mixture of compounds instead of one at a time.While the technology may be new, the overarching goal of Haghighat’s lab has remained the same for its 25 years in existence. “Our long-term objective is to reduce energy use as much as we can while providing much better indoor air quality. That is the key to designing net-zero energy buildings,” says Haghighat.Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityIn search of a healthy and energy efficient buildingNews
            
                News
            Related LinksJoin the conversationSourceFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2015/07/15/researchers-find-dangerous-byproducts-in-pco-system-filters.htmlVersion françaiseImagine if, in an effort to clean the air more efficiently, you were involuntarily introducing chemicals more dangerous than the ones you were trying to scrub. Concordia researchers have found that this exact situation is happening with a type of air filter called photocatalytic oxidation (PCO), a product already on the market. The chemical by-product? Formaldehyde, a known human carcinogen.In a paper published in the journal Building and Environment, recent doctoral graduate Lexuan Zhong and her supervisor Fariborz Haghighat present the findings of their independent testing of the PCO systems, which filter air using ultraviolet light. This is the first time the systems have been independently tested. “We were shocked that some of the gases to come through the system are more dangerous than the original gas,” says Haghighat, who is a professor with the Department of Building, Civil and Environmental Engineering and Concordia University Research Chair of Energy and Environment.With countries like China and Korea eager to fix growing air pollution problems, engineers and consumers desperate for new technologies have been forced to try to evaluate and compare PCO systems themselves in the absence of standards.“That’s a big problem, there’s lots of confusion in the market. We are trying to clarify that confusion and work on developing testing methods,” says Zhong. Her thesis, which developed new methods for the evaluation, was awarded Concordia's doctoral dissertation prize in 2014.The battle against chemical contaminants is a challenge because gases come from so many sources — carpets, paint, treated wood. And then there are all the perfumed products we use individually. “Sometimes the concentration of gases inside the building is almost ten times more than outside,” says Haghighat. While regulations limit percentages of chemicals in the air, there are fewer governing specific technologies.“Because it’s new technology and the public accepts whatever the industry says, if a company says it is working they believe it. But it has not been tested by a standards organization. Usually that takes time, 10 to 15 years,” he says.Besides developing systems that adequately filter without adding by-products, the other major goal is to reduce energy consumption. While the main (PCO) system currently in use employs mechanical ventilation, where fresh air is pumped in from outside and taken out from inside, the method is not very energy efficient. Neither are some other modern systems: Haghighat’s colleague Chang-Seo Lee points to activated charcoal carbon filters (which do have standards attached) as an example of a good technology but one that requires a lot more energy to operate.In terms of next steps for the investigation of PCO filtration, Lee says the lab wants to experiment with new versions of the technology. “We want to develop our own catalyst because we’ve found the commercial catalyst does not have good efficiency,” she says. Another goal is more complex testing using a mixture of compounds instead of one at a time.While the technology may be new, the overarching goal of Haghighat’s lab has remained the same for its 25 years in existence. “Our long-term objective is to reduce energy use as much as we can while providing much better indoor air quality. That is the key to designing net-zero energy buildings,” says Haghighat.
 Learn more about graduate programs in the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science. 
  
        $4.5 million to advance Concordia’s research strengths
    
        Concordia renews its commitment to sustainability
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityIn search of a healthy and energy-efficient buildingNews
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/fr/actualites/central/communiques-de-presse/2015/07/15/researchers-find-dangerous-byproducts-in-pco-system-filters.htmlMontréal, le 15 juillet 2015 — Imaginez si un épurateur d’air offrant une efficacité supérieure émettait une substance encore plus néfaste que les contaminants qu’il permet d’éliminer. C’est exactement ce qu’ont découvert des chercheurs de l’Université Concordia en analysant la performance d’un type de filtre dit « à oxydation photocatalytique » (OPC), dispositif déjà offert sur le marché. La substance produite? Du formaldéhyde, un composé cancérogène.La doctorante Lexuan Zhong et son directeur de thèse Fariborz Haghighat ont mené des essais sur les systèmes OPC, qui filtrent l’air au moyen de rayons ultraviolets. Les résultats de leurs travaux ont été publiés dans la revue Building and Environment.C’était la première fois que ces appareils faisaient l’objet d’épreuves indépendantes. « Nous étions consternés, lance M. Haghighat, qui est professeur au Département de génie du bâtiment, civil et environnemental. En effet, certains des gaz émis par ces dispositifs sont plus dangereux que les contaminants qu’ils filtrent. » Or, dans des pays comme la Chine et la Corée, les problèmes liés à la pollution atmosphérique s’accentuent. Avides de nouvelles technologies pour s’y attaquer, ingénieurs et consommateurs se sont vus forcés d’évaluer et de comparer les systèmes OPC en l’absence de toute norme. « Dans le marché, la confusion règne, ce qui est loin d’être idéal, commente Mme Zhong. Nous tentons d’y remédier en élaborant des méthodes d’essai. » Les travaux de la chercheuse, qui a récemment obtenu son doctorat, ont été récompensés d’un prix de thèse doctorale distinguée de Concordia en 2014.Lutter contre la contamination chimique représente tout un défi, car les sources de gaz nocifs sont nombreuses. Il s’en dégage des tapis, des peintures, du bois traité – sans compter tous les produits parfumés que nous utilisons individuellement. « Parfois, la concentration de tels gaz est dix fois plus importante à l’intérieur d’un bâtiment qu’à l’extérieur », observe le Pr Haghighat. Il existe certes des règlements qui visent à limiter la teneur de l’air en substances nocives. Mais en ce qui concerne la surveillance de l’efficacité de technologies précises, la règlementation présente des lacunes évidentes.« Comme il s’agit d’une nouvelle technologie et que le public accepte les affirmations de l’industrie sans discernement, si une entreprise dit que son appareil fonctionne, les gens le croient, poursuit Fariborz Haghighat. Or, ce type de filtre n’a pas été éprouvé par une société de normalisation. Il faut ordinairement attendre de 10 à 15 ans avant qu’une telle vérification ait lieu. »Outre l’obtention d’une filtration adéquate sans contamination fortuite, l’autre objectif clé du perfectionnement des systèmes de purification de l’air consiste à réduire la consommation d’énergie. Dans les installations à ventilation forcée, qui sont actuellement les plus répandues, l’air frais de l’extérieur est aspiré dans le bâtiment, et l’air intérieur en est évacué. Or, cette méthode est peu avantageuse sur le plan de l’efficacité énergétique, défaut que présentent également d’autres systèmes modernes. Pour Chang-Seo Lee, une collègue du Pr Haghighat, le filtre à charbon actif (pourtant assujetti à des normes) est un bon exemple de technologie efficace, mais très coûteuse sur le plan énergétique.  Quant à l’avenir de la recherche sur la filtration par oxydation photocatalytique, Mme Lee précise que le laboratoire entend explorer de nouvelles versions du concept. « Nous voulons développer notre propre catalyseur, car celui des appareils actuellement vendus dans le commerce n’est pas assez efficace, indique-t-elle. Nous souhaitons également mener des essais plus complexes à l’aide d’un mélange de composés, et non plus d’une seule substance à la fois. »Qu’il s’agisse de technologies nouvelles ou éprouvées, le laboratoire de Fariborz Haghighat vise le même but depuis 25 ans. « Notre objectif à long terme est de réduire la consommation d’énergie au minimum tout en améliorant la qualité de l’air intérieur, conclut le chercheur. C’est d’ailleurs la pierre angulaire de la conception de bâtiments à consommation énergétique nulle. »Rechercher un expert apte à commenter tout sujetEntrer une expression ou un mot-clé© Université ConcordiaConcordia UniversityEn quête d’un bâtiment sain et écoénergétiqueLiens connexesJoignez-vous à la conversationSourceTrouver un expertUniversité Concordia - Contactez-nous au 514-848-2424