http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/encs/bcee/student-life/scholarships-awards.htmlTutor, Lab Demonstrator and Marker assignments are provided by the Department, and awarded to qualified applicants in July/August (for fall and winter semester courses), December (for the remaining winter semester courses), and March/April (for summer courses). The basic requirements are technical knowledge and good communication skills as demonstrated by past experience and academic records. TAs are required to pass the COPTTA (Concordia Oral Proficiency Test for Teaching Assistants).The available positions for the Department of BCEE are advertised in ENCS TA web portal. Applicants are required to provide the necessary documentation by the stipulated deadlines. Excellent 3rd or 4th year undergraduate students with CGPA of at least 3.7 are encouraged to apply. For graduate applicants, priority is given to, respectively, Ph.D., M.A.Sc., and then M.Eng students. For tutor positions, preference is given to students with better verbal communication skills. Students interested in applying for a TA position should subscribe to either the BCEEng-group (for undergraduate students) or BCEGrad-group (for graduate students) in order to get the latest information by email.All TA positions are in accordance to the PSAC-TRAC Collective Agreement. TA's must abide by the conditions stipulated in the Agreement, and must complete and sign the union membership form found at the end of the TRAC when they come to sign the tutor/lab demonstrator/marker contract.The Paul Fazio Building Engineering Undergraduate award was established in 2005 through the generosity of Dr. Paul Fazio, Professor of Building Engineering at the Envelope Performance Laboratory, Centre for Building Studies (CBS), Department of Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering.Dr. Fazio founded the CBS in the late 1970s, which he headed until 1997. Over this period he established the Building Engineering programs at the Bachelor, Masters, and Doctoral levels. For Dr. Fazio's contributions to building engineering research and education, he was named Fellow of the Canadian Society of Civil Engineers (FCSCE), the American Society of Civil Engineers (FASCE), and the Engineering Institute of Canada (EIC).The non-renewable Paul Fazio Building Engineering Undergraduate Award is intended to recognize and encourage an outstanding Undergraduate student pursuing full-time studies in the field of building engineering at Concordia University.Candidates must have a minimum GPA of 3.40 with 60 credits completed, or in the process of being completed, and must demonstrate good communication and leadership skills in the promotion of building engineering. A statement of purpose must be provided with the candidate's application, highlighting why they chose building engineering, their activities promoting building engineering, and how they plan to foster this discipline in their studies and future career.This award is part of the Undergraduate In-Course Scholarships & Awards Program. Candidates are selected each year by the Undergraduate Scholarships and Awards Committee. Information on applications and annual deadlines can be obtained from the Financial Aid and Awards Office.A number of in-course scholarships are available through the generous support of Magil Construction Ltd. These scholarships are available to all full-time students pursuing a major in Building or Civil Engineering, and who have completed between thirty-five (35) and seventy (70) credits in the Building or Civil Engineering program.This award is part of the Undergraduate In-Course Scholarships & Awards Program. No application is required; candidates are recommended by the Department of Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering to the Undergraduate Scholarships and Awards Committee each year.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityScholarships & awardsDepartment of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE)
            
                Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE)
            Join the conversationTeaching Assistantships
                
					
                    Paul Fazio Building Engineering Undergraduate Award
                
            
                
					
                    Magil Construction Ltd. ScholarshipsM.A.Sc. and/or Ph.D. StudentsCanadian Students and Permanent ResidentsMessage BoardsConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Details:Details:http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/students/financial-support/scholarships-awards.htmlLearn more about scholarships, bursaries, and awards that support undergraduate students at Concordia University.  Questions & answers, lists, and more - it's all here.Check out the latest bulletins on awards you can apply for.Learn how the various kinds of scholarships, bursaries, and awards are administered.Get the basics about the Undergraduate Scholarships and Awards Committee, and policies on scholarships and awards. Contact usFinancial Aid & Awards Office© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityUndergraduate awardsStudent hub
            
                Student hub
            Get Award InfoLatest Award BulletinsHow it all worksPeople & policiesConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424