http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/encs/computer-science/2016/11/24/Seminar-by-Dr-Houari-A-Sahraoui.htmlSpeaker: Dr. Houari A. Sahraoui
                 Université de Montréal
Title: Coping with APIs Usability Problems: a Holistic and Pragmatic Vision
Date: Thursday, November 24th, 2016
 
 Time: 11 a.m
 
 Place: EV2.184
APIs are widely used in modern software applications. Any developer has to learn and correctly use a large number of APIs to perform his tasks. Additionally, an incorrect use of an API may result in various types of issues in client programs. Although a considerable effort has been dedicated to adequately document the APIs, many usage constraints and patterns are not explicitly documented or their documentation is spread over many API’s elements. Moreover, such constraints and patterns might be at different levels of usage (method, API, group of APIs), which limits the coverage of the existing constraint and pattern discovery approaches. This talk reflects on different API usability problems, and discusses research venues to address these problems in realistic settings.Houari A. Sahraoui is professor and chair at the department of computer science and operations research of Université de Montréal. His research interests include software engineering automation, model-driven engineering, software visualization, and search-based software engineering. He has published around 200 research papers, edited three books, and gives regularly invited talks. He has served as a general chair of IEEE/ACM ASE and IEEE VISSOFT, a PC co-chair of IEEE VISSOFT, a program committee member in several IEEE and ACM conferences, a member of the editorial boards of four journals, and an organization member of many conferences and workshops. 
  Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversitySeminar by Dr. Houari A. Sahraoui (Université de Montréal)Department of Exercise Science
            
                Department of Exercise Science
            ABSTRACTBIOFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424