http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/sociology-ma.htmlThe Master of Arts (MA) in Sociology degree program provides advanced studies in general sociology and various specialized research fields.Offered since 1972, the MA program targets students interested in pursuing careers as sociologists or who currently work in occupations where sociological studies add value.

The MA program, like other graduate degree programs in sociology and anthropology, emphasizes a pluralistic approach to scholarly theory and methods. Students are inspired to engage in a wide range of research emphases in both established and emerging fields.

Research is an essential component of the MA program and faculty members encourage student participation in research projects at the local, national and international levels. Students have opportunities to work as research assistants on individual faculty research projects or as part of a team on projects associated with another centre of research. Students are also involved in innovative student-initiated research projects, theses and essays.

Canadian and Quebec society provide major but not exclusive research foci. Others include:The Department of Sociology and Anthropology, situated in the Faculty of Arts and Science, attracts students who wish to examine the processes of social and cultural life in diverse human societies, both past and present.

Sociology and anthropology are core social sciences. They are closely linked to the humanities and other disciplines that study the human condition, including the life sciences. They enrich academic life because they surmount many of the distinctions between these related disciplines.

The presence of both sociology and anthropology in its teaching and research programs is a unique feature of the department. Graduate studies promote the cross fertilization of ideas through cross listed courses, joint specializations and interdisciplinary research projects. Graduate students receive advanced training that integrates human constructs and concerns, such as the socio-cultural, linguistic, philosophical, psychological and religious dimensions of humankind.

Graduate alumni appreciate this comprehensive approach to learning. Many say their academic experiences were instrumental in shaping their professional interests and personal passions.

The department offers three graduate programsResearch is integral part of all three programs and faculty members encourage students to participate in projects within the department or at affiliated research centres. Faculty are involved with research initiatives at the local, national and international levels. Their research foci include:The department encourages students to study abroad and collaborates with the Centre for International Academic Cooperation (CIAC) to coordinate academic and research programs at foreign universities with which Concordia University has bilateral exchange agreements.

In addition to research assistantships and teaching scholarships, the department supports graduate students with competitive funding packages. It also offers top-up funding to incoming students who hold funding from the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council (SSHRC) and/or the Fonds de recherche du Québec - Société et Culture (FRQSC).MA students tailor their research options to accommodate their scholarly interests and career goals. To fulfill degree requirements, they choose between a thesis option with oral defense and a non-thesis/essay option written evaluated by two faculty members.Option AMA in Sociology with ThesisOption BMA in Sociology without ThesisAdmission Requirements. An undergraduate degree with honours or specialization in sociology, with a grade point average of 3.00 (B average) is required. An undergraduate degree with a major in sociology, with a grade point average of 3.00 (B average) will also be considered provided that the background preparation is acceptable. Applicants with degrees in cognate disciplines with higher grade point averages will also be considered.Applicants who lack certain prerequisite courses may be required to take a qualifying program of up to 12 undergraduate credits in addition to the regular graduate program. For the qualifying program a grade point average of 3.00 (B average) is required.Applicants with deficiencies in their undergraduate preparation may be required to take up to 24 undergraduate independent credits.International students must pass the TOEFL iBT language test with a minimum score of 90. Similar scores on comparable tests are acceptable.Applications to the program must be accompanied by a preliminary statement (roughly 500 words in length) of the student’s intentions regarding research and thesis.Your completed application will include:Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures. All applications must be submitted to the Graduate Admissions Application Centre.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Consult the graduate calendar for a complete list of current courses.Opportunities exist for PhD students to work as teaching and research assistants within the department. The selection process is competitive. Preference is given to experienced applicants with an aptitude for the work to be performed. Research assistants participate in funded projects and are hired by the individual faculty members conducting the research.
 
 The department also offers financial support to students presenting papers at conferences.Email: Eve.Girard@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2161Location: 
 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd W., H 1125-44
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 1M8Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversitySociology (MA)Why do your Master's at Concordia?
                
            
                
					
                    Program options & degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application process
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Assistantships & internships
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a master's in sociology?Program DetailsRelated ProgramsMaster of Arts (MA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424