http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/social-cultural-phd.htmlCarry out research that will enable you to address social inequities and dysfunctions. Perform cutting-edge fieldwork that raises questions about poverty, justice and access in diverse human societies around the world.The PhD in Social and Cultural Analysis provides a unique bi-disciplinary structure where you will engage in multiple methodological approaches in anthropology and sociology. Studying alongside a diverse cohort of students, you will develop an ability to initiate independent research projects while cultivating an expertise in one of the following thematic specializations:Our distinguished faculty members include Canada and Concordia University Research Chairs, as well as Quebec’s first-ever Research Chair on Gambling. Active in multiple research centres and groups, such as the newly launched Milieux Institute for Arts, Culture and Technology, our faculty also act as co-ordinators at multiple research networks like the Masculinity Research Network, Sex Trade Advocacy and Research, and the Concordia Risk Studies Network.Benefit from diverse Montreal neighbourhoods that provide good grounds to conduct anthropological and sociological fieldwork. The city is home to various cultural communities and organizations, making it an ideal location for you to work with certain groups and their members.Requirements for the DegreeNote: Doctoral students will be asked to perform at a higher level as leaders in class discussions and will be given more in-depth work in the form of papers and oral presentations.AnthropologyANTH 600 Identity and Difference
 ANTH 601 World Anthropologies
 ANTH 610 Ethnographic Research and Ethics
 ANTH 620 Writing Methods in Inter-Cultural Communication
 ANTH 630 New Directions in Anthropological Research
 ANTH 640 Special Topics I *
 ANTH 641 Special Topics II *SociologySOCI 602 Issues in Classical Sociological Theory
 SOCI 603 Issues in Contemporary Sociological Theory
 SOCI 612 Designing Sociological Research
 SOCI 613 Techniques of Sociological Research
 SOCI 620 Population and Society
 SOCI 622 Studies in Race and Ethnicity
 SOCI 625 Sociology of Culture
 SOCI 626 North American Societies
 SOCI 627 Social Movements and Social Change
 SOCI 632 Sociology of the Family
 SOCI 633 Sociology of Knowledge
 SOCI 635 Gender Studies
 SOCI 637 Development
 SOCI 638 The City
 SOCI 639 Social Problems
 SOCI 640 Community Studies
 SOCI 642 Studies in Governance
 SOCI 644 Sociology of the Body
 SOCI 645 Sociology of Men
 SOCI 646 Globalization
 SOCI 647 Democracy and Citizenship
 SOCI 648 Health, Illness and Medicine
 SOCI 649 Media and Communication
 SOCI 652 Self and Subjectivity
 SOCI 653 Intellectual BiographyAdmission Requirements. The normal requirement for admission to the PhD in Social and Cultural Analysis is a Master of/Magisteriate in Arts in sociology or in anthropology, with a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.00, from a recognized university. A superior academic record and strong references are both essential. The intended area of research is also a factor as admission is contingent on the availability of an appropriate research supervisor. Applicants who do not have the required background in either one of the disciplines will be required to take courses (undergraduate or graduate) before being admitted into the program. The number of credits required will vary depending on the student’s personal background but will be limited to no more than 24 credits. Any student applying from outside Canada whose first language is other than English must demonstrate proficiency in the English language by writing the TOEFL iBT and obtaining a minimum score of 90.Your completed application will include:Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures. Courses typically offered include:Consult the graduate calendar for a complete list of current courses.All doctoral students will be considered for a teaching assistantship, valued at approximately $3,200 per semester. Research assistant positions also exist for funded research but cannot be guaranteed. Individual faculty members determine if work opportunities are available based on their own research initiatives.Doctoral students who have completed their comprehensive exams and defended their thesis proposal are also eligible to teach undergraduate courses in their area(s) of expertise.The Cary Boucock Memorial Award provides financial support for students engaged in research travel. Conference travel funding is also available through the department and faculty. Successful applicants are automatically considered for Entrance Awards and Open Competition Awards.  Please consult Concordia’s graduate funding page, specific funding provided by the department and Financial Aid and Awards.Faculty members are involved with research initiatives at the local, national and international levels. As world experts in a variety of emerging and established fields, their findings are well represented in a number of recent book publications.Their research interests include:Review an inspiring list of thesis topics and read about some of our exceptional graduate students.Doctoral students have also been published in a multitude of peer-reviewed journals, including Anthropology in Action, Anthropologica, Anthropologie et Sociétés, and Social Anthropology.The Sociology and Anthropology Graduate Students’ Association (SAGSA) represents the collective interests and promotes the general welfare of graduate students in the department.SAGSA also hosts an annual interdisciplinary student conference in March. Previous editions have seen students from across Quebec and Canada present their research and foster dialogue across disciplines. Keynote speakers from past conferences have included Dr. Charmaine A. Nelson, Dr. Alexandrine Boudreault-Fournier and Dr. Daniel Dagenais.Our alumni are well positioned to find success in a wide range of professional careers in government statistics, human resources, development work, international relations, media and research.Recent graduates have received prestigious postdoctoral fellowships from institutions around the world. Their research areas include:Email: Eve.Girard@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2161Location: 
 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd W., H 1125-44
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 1M8Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversitySocial and Cultural Analysis (PhD)Degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application process
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Funding
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty research interests
                
            
                
					
                    Emerging ideas – student projects
                
            
                
					
                    Student Initiatives
                
            
                
					
                    Your professional future
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a doctorate in social and cultural analysis?Program DetailsRelated ProgramsDoctorate (PhD)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424