http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/calendar/current/fasc/socianth.htmlAdmission Requirements. The normal requirement for admission to the PhD in Social and Cultural Analysis is a Master of/Magisteriate in Arts in sociology or in anthropology, with a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.00, from a recognized university. A superior academic record and strong references are both essential. The intended area of research is also a factor as admission is contingent on the availability of an appropriate research supervisor. Applicants who do not have the required background in either one of the disciplines will be required to take courses (undergraduate or graduate) before being admitted into the program. The number of credits required will vary depending on the student’s personal background but will be limited to no more than 24 credits. Any student applying from outside Canada whose first language is other than English must demonstrate proficiency in the English language by writing the TOEFL iBT and obtaining a minimum score of 90.Requirements for the DegreeNote: Doctoral students will be asked to perform at a higher level as leaders in class discussions and will be given more in-depth work in the form of papers and oral presentations.AnthropologyANTH 600 Identity and Difference
 ANTH 601 World Anthropologies
 ANTH 610 Ethnographic Research and Ethics
 ANTH 620 Writing Methods in Inter-Cultural Communication
 ANTH 630 New Directions in Anthropological Research
 ANTH 640 Special Topics I *
 ANTH 641 Special Topics II *SociologySOCI 602 Issues in Classical Sociological Theory
 SOCI 603 Issues in Contemporary Sociological Theory
 SOCI 612 Designing Sociological Research
 SOCI 613 Techniques of Sociological Research
 SOCI 620 Population and Society
 SOCI 622 Studies in Race and Ethnicity
 SOCI 625 Sociology of Culture
 SOCI 626 North American Societies
 SOCI 627 Social Movements and Social Change
 SOCI 632 Sociology of the Family
 SOCI 633 Sociology of Knowledge
 SOCI 635 Gender Studies
 SOCI 637 Development
 SOCI 638 The City
 SOCI 639 Social Problems
 SOCI 640 Community Studies
 SOCI 642 Studies in Governance
 SOCI 644 Sociology of the Body
 SOCI 645 Sociology of Men
 SOCI 646 Globalization
 SOCI 647 Democracy and Citizenship
 SOCI 648 Health, Illness and Medicine
 SOCI 649 Media and Communication
 SOCI 652 Self and Subjectivity
 SOCI 653 Intellectual BiographyAcademic RegulationsRequired CoursesSOAN 800 General Seminar (6 credits)
This course focuses on orientating the common epistemological interests of sociological and anthropological approaches to social and cultural analysis in the four areas of specialization. In order to maximize interdisciplinary coverage, the seminar will be led by two faculty members, one trained in sociology and one in anthropology.SOAN 820 Professional Development
This course is designed as a seminar in which guest speakers orally present the results of their work and practical information on various professional skills (professionalization). Students are exposed to a variety of research conducted in the two disciplines and acquire communication and teaching skills necessary for working in the real world (defined as both academic and non-academic). Students learn how to present research results to a variety of audiences, how to address issues related to university teaching, and how to deal with ethical issues in the research context. The course is graded as Pass/Fail. It is mandatory for all students in the program. Each week, students must submit a written report on the presentation of the previous week.SOAN 840 General Seminar
Designed as a preparation to the research involved in the thesis, the second general seminar focuses on the development of writing and research capacities, preparing research proposals, addressing issues in theory and method in relation to various topics, covering literature reviews. One faculty member is responsible for this seminar.SOAN 850 Comprehensive Exam l (6 credits)
SOAN 860 Comprehensive Exam ll (6 credits)Towards the end of their 1st year in the program, and in consultation with the Graduate Program Director, PhD students will form an advisory committee of three faculty members, including their thesis supervisor, to assist in the preparation of the comprehensive exams (6 credits each). A core reading list of 50 to 100 titles is suggested as reasonable for each of the exams. The first comprehensive exam is non-related to the thesis topic while the second is broadly connected to it (but not so closely as to be a potential chapter of the thesis). In both cases, the ultimate goal of the exams is to establish a future faculty member’s academic specialization. After completing them, the student should have acquired sufficient background to teach a course and/or conduct advanced research in the area.The examinations normally take place before the end of the student’s second year in the program. Each exam takes the form of a written essay (20-25 pages) that the student has three weeks to write. The submission of the written examination is followed in the next three weeks by an oral defense before the advisory committee. Students who fail one of these exams are allowed to take it for a second time during the following term. A second failure leads to the students’ withdrawal from the program.SOAN 870 Thesis Proposal
A candidate who has successfully completed the course requirements and the comprehensive exams must submit a thesis proposal to the Graduate Program Director and the thesis committee. The thesis committee, selected in consultation with the GPD, is composed of three members representing both Sociology and Anthropology. It may be the student’s initial advisory committee. The thesis proposal should describe the topic of the thesis, situate it in the relevant literature, and discuss the intended research methods. The written version of the proposal is approved by the members of the thesis committee and followed by an oral defense before the committee members. Following this, the PhD candidate will be invited to present his thesis proposal in a departmental seminar.SOAN 890 Thesis (57 credits)
Doctoral candidates submit a thesis based on their research and defend it in an oral examination. The thesis is expected to make an original contribution to knowledge, to be based on primary sources and to be presented in an acceptable form. The thesis should normally be no more than 400 pages in length (or equivalent if a non-literary format is used). TopAdmission Requirements. An undergraduate degree with honours or specialization in anthropology or joint specialization in anthropology and sociology, with a grade point average of 3.00 (B average) is required. An undergraduate degree with a major in anthropology, with a grade point average of 3.00 (B average) will be considered, provided that the background preparation is acceptable.Applicants who lack certain prerequisite courses may be required to take a qualifying program of up to 12 undergraduate credits in addition to the regular graduate program. For the qualifying program a grade point average of 3.00 (B average) is required.Applicants with deficiencies in their undergraduate preparation may be required to take up to 24 undergraduate independent credits.International students must pass the TOEFL iBT language test with a minimum score of 90. Similar scores on comparable tests are acceptable.Applications to the program must be accompanied by a preliminary statement (roughly 500 words in length) of the student’s intentions regarding research, fieldwork and thesis.Requirements for the DegreeAcademic RegulationsCoursesEach student must satisfactorily complete the following program: ANTH 600, ANTH 601, ANTH 610, ANTH 620, ANTH 630, and ANTH 660. Each student must further complete the fieldwork and thesis component of the degree program, which is composed of ANTH 690, ANTH 691 and ANTH 692.All courses listed below are worth 3 credits unless otherwise noted.ANTH 600 Identity and Difference 
This course explores the processes of social differentiation and identification.ANTH 601 World Anthropologies 
This course examines the roots of anthropological theory in Western culture and the decolonization of anthropology since the 1960s.ANTH 610 Ethnographic Research and Ethics 
This course explores the methods used to gather ethnographic material and the ethical dynamics of the fieldwork encounter, and the duties of the anthropologist as cultural mediator.ANTH 620 Writing Methods in Inter-Cultural Communication
This course examines a range of methods and styles for presenting ethnographic material, from ethnographic realism to fiction, and encourages further experimentation.ANTH 630 New Directions in Anthropological Research 
This course explores emergent concepts, methods and topics in anthropology.ANTH 640 Special Topics I *
This course, selected in consultation with the student’s thesis supervisor, may be taken from a cognate discipline.ANTH 641 Special Topics II *
This course, selected in consultation with the student’s thesis supervisor, is offered as the occasion arises, for example, when a faculty member returns from the field, or when a visiting professor is in residence.ANTH 660 Professional Development Seminar 
This seminar is designed to help students develop the professional skills needed to pursue a career in research, practice or teaching. Students are exposed to a variety of research approaches through presentations by a diversity of faculty researchers. This seminar takes place every two weeks over the course of the Fall and Winter semesters. Credit for this course is obtained on a pass/fail basis.ANTH 690 Thesis Proposal
The student develops a research proposal under the direction of his/her thesis supervisor.ANTH 691 Fieldwork: Stage (6 credits)
The fieldwork requirement, which may last from 3-4 months, involves undertaking research in a community which differs in important respects from the student’s community of reference, and collecting ethnographic data. This research will form the basis of the student’s thesis.ANTH 692 Thesis (18 credits)
The thesis is required to demonstrate that the student has been able to carry out independent field research. It should be a work of near publishable quality. The thesis is evaluated by the student’s Thesis Committee and one other faculty member. The student is also required to defend the thesis orally before the above-mentioned examiners.* Subject matter varies from term to term and from year to year. Students may re-register for this course provided that the course content has changed. Changes in content are indicated by the letter following the course number, e.g. ANTH 640A, ANTH 640B, etc.TopAdmission Requirements. An undergraduate degree with honours or specialization in sociology, with a grade point average of 3.00 (B average) is required. An undergraduate degree with a major in sociology, with a grade point average of 3.00 (B average) will also be considered provided that the background preparation is acceptable. Applicants with degrees in cognate disciplines with higher grade point averages will also be considered.Applicants who lack certain prerequisite courses may be required to take a qualifying program of up to 12 undergraduate credits in addition to the regular graduate program. For the qualifying program a grade point average of 3.00 (B average) is required.Applicants with deficiencies in their undergraduate preparation may be required to take up to 24 undergraduate independent credits.International students must pass the TOEFL iBT language test with a minimum score of 90. Similar scores on comparable tests are acceptable.Applications to the program must be accompanied by a preliminary statement (roughly 500 words in length) of the student’s intentions regarding research and thesis.Requirements for the DegreeAcademic RegulationsMaster of/Magisteriate in Arts in Sociology with Thesis (Option A)Courses. Each student must satisfactorily complete the following program: SOCI 602 (3 credits), SOCI 603 (3 credits), SOCI 612 (3 credits), SOCI 613 (3 credits), SOCI 660 (3 credits), and SOCI 690 (3 credits); a course in the area of research (3 credits); one elective course (3 credits), SOCI 691 (21 credits).Thesis. Students enrolled in the thesis option are required to demonstrate their ability to carry out independent research which reflects a scientific approach. The thesis proposal, SOCI 690 (prepared within the confines of the thesis tutorial) will serve as the basis for the elaboration of the written thesis, SOCI 691. The student will then orally defend the thesis before an examining committee. The thesis may be written in either English or French.Master of/Magisteriate in Arts without Thesis (Essay - Option B)Courses. Each student must satisfactorily complete the following program: SOCI 602 (3 credits), SOCI 603 (3 credits), SOCI 612 (3 credits), SOCI 613 (3 credits), SOCI 660 (3 credits), SOCI 695 (18 credits) and 12 credits of electives.Essay. SOCI 695 (18 credits): Each student is required to write the essay under the supervision of one faculty member and is evaluated by two faculty members, including the supervisor. It can either be a literature review of a substantive nature, or a report on empirical research. Students are expected to submit work of publishable or near publishable quality. The appropriate length of the essay is approximately 40 pages.Note 1. All students are required to plan courses related to their own interests with the help of advisors.
Note 2. No more than 6 credits of elective studies taken outside the discipline may be credited towards the degree.CoursesSOCI 602 Issues in Classical Sociological Theory
This course is designed to examine selected classical texts and analyze the work of recent interpreters and critics. During this course, we will endeavour to develop our critical understanding of the classics. In addition, we will strive to create an awareness of the diversity of readings of classical texts that will enhance our ability to make further critical appropriations, revisions, and uses of the classical tradition. (3 credits)SOCI 603 Issues in Contemporary Sociological Theory (3 credits)
This course is an in-depth study of issues in contemporary sociological theory. It is designed to foster awareness of the plurality, diversity, and divergence among contemporary readers and readings of current texts. The focus is on critical analysis of major writings representing diverse theoretical orientations in recent sociology. Attention is given to fundamental assumptions and to practical implications of given orientations and styles of sociology.SOCI 612 Quantitative Research Design and Methods (3 credits)
This course explores quantitative research design and methodology as a whole process, from conceptualization to research questions, methods, data analysis, and results dissemination. Topics include data structures and their relation to theory; data collection; access to and use of large data sets; coding and validity and reliability issues; statistical techniques as generalized linear models; linear and logistic regression. Students apply various methods to read data. Ethical issues are also considered.SOCI 613 Qualitative Research Design and Methods (3 credits)
This course explores research methodology, design, analysis and dissemination. Topics include focus groups, participant observation, open-ended and structured interviewing, content and discourse analysis, life histories and historical analysis. Analysis will also explore approaches to coding qualitative data and the links between data and conceptual and theoretical categories. Ethical issues as well as issues of researcher safety in the field are considered.SOCI 660 Professional Development Seminar (3 credits)
This seminar is designed to help students develop the professional skills needed to pursue a career in research, practice or teaching. Students are exposed to a variety of research approaches through presentations by a diversity of faculty researchers. This seminar takes place every two weeks over the course of the Fall and Winter semesters. Grading for this course is obtained on a pass/fail basis.SOCI 690 Thesis Proposal (3 credits)
The student develops a research proposal under the direction of his/her thesis supervisor.SOCI 691 Thesis 
Students enrolled in the thesis option are required to demonstrate their ability to carry out independent research which reflects a scientific approach. The thesis proposal, SOCI 690 (prepared within the confines of the thesis tutorial) will serve as the basis for the elaboration of the actual thesis, SOCI 691. This will take the form of a written thesis (21 credits) of at least article length. The student will then orally defend the thesis before an examining committee. The thesis may be written in either English or French.SOCI 695 Essay 
The essay is written under the supervision of one faculty member and is evaluated by two faculty members, including the supervisor. It can either be a literature review of a substantive nature, or a report on empirical research. Students are expected to submit work of publishable or near publishable quality. The appropriate length of the essay is approximately 40 pages.Selected TopicsThe offerings for the following courses will be reviewed each year in light of the interest of students and faculty members. Five elective courses are offered each academic year from the list given below. Courses numbered “700” are advanced studies and normally will be conducted on a tutorial basis. The corresponding 600-level course is a prerequisite to the 700-level course. All courses listed below are worth 3 credits unless otherwise noted.SOCI 620/720 Population and Society
 SOCI 622/722 Studies in Race and Ethnicity
 SOCI 625/725 Sociology of Culture
 SOCI 626/726 North American Societies
 SOCI 627/727 Social Movements and Social Change
 SOCI 632/732 Sociology of the Family
 SOCI 633/733 Sociology of Knowledge
 SOCI 635/735 Gender Studies
 SOCI 637/737 Development
 SOCI 638/738 The City
 SOCI 639/739 Social Problems
 SOCI 640/740 Community Studies
 SOCI 642/742 Studies in Governance
 SOCI 644/744 Sociology of the Body
 SOCI 645/745 Sociology of Men
 SOCI 646/746 Globalization
 SOCI 647/747 Democracy and Citizenship
 SOCI 648/748 Health, Illness and Medicine
 SOCI 649/749 Media and Communication
 SOCI 652/752 Self and Subjectivity
 SOCI 653/753 Intellectual BiographyAdditional Topics, Thesis, and EssaySOCI 601 Topics in Advanced Theory
 SOCI 611 Topics in Advanced Methodology
 SOCI 650/750 Special Topic in Sociology I
 SOCI 651/751 Special Topic in Sociology II
 SOCI 691 Thesis (21 credits)
SOCI 695 Essay (18 credits)Top© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
Sociology and AnthropologySocial and Cultural AnthropologySociologyPrograms
Doctor of/Doctorate in Philosophy (Social and Cultural Analysis)
Master of/Magisteriate in Arts (Social and Cultural Anthropology)
Master of/Magisteriate in Arts (Sociology)Department of Sociology and Anthropology WebsiteConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424