http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/social-cultural-ma.htmlThe Master of Arts (MA) in Social and Cultural Anthropology provides general training in the social and cultural organization of human societies. Graduates gain interdisciplinary skills to work effectively as consultants, mediators in multicultural contexts, or to pursue further studies in anthropology at the Doctoral level.The MA program has four objectives:The MA in Social and Cultural Anthropology, like other graduate degree programs in sociology and anthropology, emphasizes a pluralistic approach to scholarly theory and methods. It inspires students to engage in a wide range of research emphases in both established and emerging fields. This approach promotes anthropology as a discipline that transcends the divisions between the natural and social sciences and the humanities. An emphasis is placed on holistic examination of all of the biological, socio-cultural, linguistic, psychological and symbolic dimensions of human behaviour and thought.

Research is an essential component of the MA program and ethnographic fieldwork is key to the program’s research requirements. Students collect and document ethnographic data based on firsthand observation and publish a thesis which makes an original contribution to knowledge.The Department of Sociology and Anthropology, situated in the Faculty of Arts and Science, attracts students who wish to examine the processes of social and cultural life in diverse human societies, both past and present.

Sociology and anthropology are core social sciences. They are closely linked to the humanities and other disciplines that study the human condition, including the life sciences. They enrich academic life because they surmount many of the distinctions between these related disciplines.

The presence of both sociology and anthropology in its teaching and research programs is a unique feature of the department. Graduate studies promote the cross fertilization of ideas through cross listed courses, joint specializations and interdisciplinary research projects. Graduate students receive advanced training that integrates human constructs and concerns, such as the socio-cultural, linguistic, philosophical, psychological and religious dimensions of humankind.

Graduate alumni appreciate this comprehensive approach to learning. Many say their academic experiences were instrumental in shaping their professional interests and personal passions.

The department offers three graduate programsResearch is integral part of all three programs and faculty members encourage students to participate in projects within the department or at affiliated research centres. Faculty are involved with research initiatives at the local, national and international levels. Their research foci include:The department encourages students to study abroad and collaborates with the Centre for International Academic Cooperation (CIAC) to coordinate academic and research programs at foreign universities with which Concordia University has bilateral exchange agreements.

In addition to research assistantships and teaching scholarships, the department supports graduate students with competitive funding packages. It also offers top-up funding to incoming students who hold funding from the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council (SSHRC) and/or the Fonds de recherche du Québec -  Société et Culture (FRQSC).

Requirements for the DegreeAdmission Requirements. An undergraduate degree with honours or specialization in anthropology or joint specialization in anthropology and sociology, with a grade point average of 3.00 (B average) is required. An undergraduate degree with a major in anthropology, with a grade point average of 3.00 (B average) will be considered, provided that the background preparation is acceptable.Applicants who lack certain prerequisite courses may be required to take a qualifying program of up to 12 undergraduate credits in addition to the regular graduate program. For the qualifying program a grade point average of 3.00 (B average) is required.Applicants with deficiencies in their undergraduate preparation may be required to take up to 24 undergraduate independent credits.International students must pass the TOEFL iBT language test with a minimum score of 90. Similar scores on comparable tests are acceptable.Applications to the program must be accompanied by a preliminary statement (roughly 500 words in length) of the student’s intentions regarding research, fieldwork and thesis.Your completed application will include:Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures. All applications must be submitted to the Graduate Admissions Application Centre.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Consult the graduate calendar for a complete list of current courses.Opportunities exist for PhD students to work as teaching and research assistants within the department. The selection process is competitive. Preference is given to experienced applicants with an aptitude for the work to be performed. Research assistants participate in funded projects and are hired by the individual faculty members conducting the research.
 
 The department also offers financial support to students presenting papers at conferences.Faculty members provide opportunities to students to participate in research projects at the local, national and international levels. Students often work as research assistants on individual faculty research projects or as part of a team on projects associated with other centres of research. Faculty research interests include:Email: Eve.Girard@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2161Location: 
 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd W., H 1125-44
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 1M8Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversitySocial and Cultural Anthropology (MA)Why do your Master's at Concordia?
                
            
                
					
                    Degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application process
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Assistantships & internships
                
            
                
					
                    Faculty research interests
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a master's in social and cultural analysis?Program DetailsRelated ProgramsMaster of Arts (MA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424