http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/calendar/current/fasc/span.htmlAdmission Requirements. The normal requirement for admission into the MA is an Honours or Specialization in Spanish, or equivalent degree with a minimum GPA of 3.30 on a 4.30 scale; official transcripts; curriculum vitae; three letters of reference; statement of purpose in English or French; oral and written competence in Spanish and English or Spanish and French. Applicants must submit a 5-minute voice sample in Spanish in an audio file (mp3, iTunes, or wma) and a 1000-word writing sample in Spanish. All applications will be reviewed by the Graduate Studies Committee.Language Requirements. International applicants whose primary language is not English must provide eligible proof of English proficiency. The minimum required score for TOEFL iBT is 80 and 550 for TOEFL PBT. Applicants may also submit IELTS (International English Language System) results. The minimum acceptance score for IELTS is 6.5.Requirements for the DegreeAcademic RegulationsCoursesStudents are required to complete 18 credits of coursework. The following core courses are required (six credits):SPAN 601 Discourse Analysis and Research Methods (3 credits)
SPAN 603 Introduction to the Pedagogy of Spanish (3 credits)Twelve credits of elective courses may be chosen from the following list:SPAN 605 Independent Study (3 credits)
SPAN 621-630 Topics in Applied Linguistics and the pedagogy of Spanish (3 credits)
SPAN 631-640 Topics in Spanish Translation (3 credits)
SPAN 641-650 Topics in Critical Thinking and Theory (3 credits)
SPAN 651-660 Topics in the Subject and Identity (3 credits)
SPAN 661-670 Topics in Exile and Marginality (3 credits)
SPAN 671-680 Topics in History of Ideas in the Hispanic World (3 credits)
SPAN 681 Research Seminar (3 credits)
SPAN 698 Topics in Current Research (3 credits)Note 1: Subject matter in “topics” courses varies from term to term and from year to year. Details of the courses to be given together with their respective course contents will be available at the beginning of the academic year.Note 2: In consultation with the Graduate Program Director, students may replace up to 6 credits of reading courses, or credits at the graduate level in another discipline. Permission of the Graduate Program Director of the respective program must also be granted. Interdisciplinary courses, where relevant to the student’s program, may include courses at the graduate level in the Departments of Communication Studies, Education, English, Études françaises, Philosophy, Sociology and Anthropology, and Religion. Approval of courses from these departments will be sought on a per-case basis.Note 3: Students who wish to concentrate in Pedagogy or Translation may take six credits at the graduate level in the department relative to their concentration.Twenty-seven credits in:SPAN 694 Thesis Proposal (3 credits)
SPAN 695 Thesis (24 credits)OR:SPAN 682 Research Paper I (12 credits)
SPAN 683 Research Paper II (15 credits)SPAN 601 Discourse Analysis and Research Methods (3 credits)
This course is designed to provide both a broad theoretical introduction and concrete practice in the research and analysis of literary and cultural texts. Students consider, critique, and incorporate theory and criticism into the articulation and elaboration of an analytical essay. They also implement fundamental research practices such as performing bibliographical searches and documentation; implementing narrative, argumentative, and persuasive rhetorical strategies; and, finally, developing a rigorously defended and coherent argument.SPAN 603 Introduction to the Pedagogy of Spanish (3 credits)
In this course, students learn and implement important aspects of teaching methodology and techniques. Opportunities for observation of Spanish classes are provided. Students apply the techniques learned in micro-teaching and peer teaching exercises. Assignments include lesson planning and the evaluation of teaching performance. This course will be offered in the first semester of every year. In order to integrate practice into the curriculum, an effort will be made to offer students an opportunity to teach an Introductory Spanish language course.SPAN 605 Independent Study (3 credits)
Under the supervision of a faculty member, the student undertakes research in a defined topic related to the student’s interest and the faculty member’s field of specialization. A final research paper is required.SPAN 621-630 Topics in Applied Linguistics and the Pedagogy of Spanish (3 credits)
The courses in this area address different theoretical aspects of Spanish pedagogy, such as learning theories, curriculum planning, interlanguage development, the teaching and learning of phonology, phonetics, grammar, and vocabulary acquisition.SPAN 631-640 Topics in Spanish Translation (3 credits)
Courses in this thematic area will explore different theoretical aspects of translation, such as languages in contact (bilingualism, interpretation, Chicano/a literature, contrastive grammars), diachronic and synchronic linguistic variation and its representation in time and space, as well as provide students with the opportunity to practice their translation skills.SPAN 641-650 Topics in Critical Thinking and Theory (3 credits)
Through the study of cultural discourses of the Hispanic world, this thematic area aims to improve the understanding and praxis of rational analysis and argumentation, as well as to examine the intimate relationship between linguistic/language theory and cultural analysis. Topics may include rhetoric, pragmatics and hermeneutics, as well as the analytical practices of a number of linguistic and literary theorists.SPAN 651-660 Topics in the Subject and Identity (3 credits)
This area examines the artistic, literary and philosophical conceptualizations of subject and identity in the Hispanic world, including the problematics of gender, the (visual) image, the gaze, the body, etc. Topics may include the image of the gendered subject, analyses of dramatic works and film, the ‘visibility’ of the subject in the media, literature and/or paraliterature of a period and/or geographical area.SPAN 661-670 Topics in Exile and Marginality (3 credits)
This thematic area examines exile as an epistemological, ontological, aesthetic, linguistic and political category within the Hispanic world. Courses may concentrate on writers and/or artists in exile, political and national identity, as well as gender issues in different eras and geographical spaces. Topics may include the examination of discourses of crisis in different eras: modernization; testimonio literature; the boom; the Chicano world and its reality; postmodernism/colonialism.SPAN 671-680 Topics in the History of Ideas in the Hispanic World (3 credits)
This area examines the philosophical and ideological bases of artistic expression in the Hispanic world, in its European, American and Asian contexts. Topics may include the Caliban/Ariel dichotomy in Latin America, the rhetoric of independence and revolution, modernity/postmodernity. Poetic and essayistic discourses of Spain and Spanish America form the corpus for this area.SPAN 681 Research Seminar (3 credits)
Students meet with peers and faculty for discussion and presentation of their current research.SPAN 682 Research Paper I (12 credits)
Under the supervision of a faculty member, students undertake a substantial research project, to be completed by the preparation of a research paper.SPAN 683 Research Paper II (15 credits)
Under the supervision of a faculty member, students undertake a research project, to be completed by the preparation of a research paper.SPAN 694 Thesis Proposal (3 credits)
Under the supervision of a thesis supervisor, the student writes a proposal presenting a research topic, whose overall goal is to demonstrate that the student is capable of undertaking an independent research project. In the proposal, the student provides: 1) the linguistic, cultural or literary phenomenon or corpus to be studied; 2) a critical and theoretical framework for the study; and 3) a preliminary bibliography. This proposal is submitted to the thesis director and Graduate Program Director for consideration.SPAN 695 Thesis (24 credits)
The thesis consists of the formulation and presentation of the research results. Each thesis is examined by a committee consisting of the student’s supervisor and at least two other scholars from the department and/or scholars from relevant disciplines in other departments or institutions.SPAN 698 Topics in Current Research (3 credits)
When offered, content will depend on the theme designated by the program.Students may re-register for this course, provided that the course content has changed. Change in content will be indicated by the letter following the course number.Top© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
Classics, Modern Languages and LinguisticsProgram
Master of/Magisteriate in Arts (Hispanic Studies)Department of Classics, Modern Languages and Linguistics WebsiteNote: Admissions have been suspended.Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424