http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/calendar/current/fofa/star.htmlAdmission Requirements. A Bachelor of Fine Arts or a Bachelor of Arts with a Fine Arts or Fine Arts and Art History major, or an approved equivalent, from a recognized institution and with at least a B average in the major area is required. Applicants to the Film Production concentration are expected to have a Bachelor of Fine Arts or Bachelor of Arts degree in cinema or an approved equivalent with at least a B average in the major area. In all cases the students’ undergraduate experience and proficiency must be relevant to the area in which they plan to specialize at the graduate level.Note: Students with a BFA from Concordia University must wait two (2) years before being considered for admission into the MFA program.Requirements for the DegreeAcademic RegulationsCoursesEach year the Faculty of Fine Arts offers a selection of courses from the Studio Arts and Cinema departments. A list of those courses, as well as information about the specific content of the seminar offerings is available from the MFA Studio Arts office.Studio CoursesCERA 610 Ceramics I (6 credits)
A studio course providing an opportunity for intense investigation into a broad range of issues in ceramics and other disciplines. Under the supervision of a professor the structure of the course allows each participant to pursue independent interests.CERA 611 Ceramics II (6 credits)
A continuation of CERA 610.CERA 612 Ceramics III (6 credits)
A continuation of CERA 611.CERA 613 Ceramics IV (6 credits)
A continuation of CERA 612.FMPR 610 Film Production I (6 credits)
A studio course providing an opportunity to do advanced work in aesthetic and technical aspects of filmmaking with an emphasis on independent production.FMPR 611 Film Production II (6 credits)
A continuation of FMPR 610.FMPR 612 Film Production III (6 credits)
A continuation of FMPR 611.FMPR 613 Film Production IV (6 credits)
A continuation of FMPR 612.FBRS 610 Fibres and Material Practices I (6 credits)
A studio course providing an opportunity for intense investigation in fibres and material practices as well as other disciplines. Under the supervision of a professor, the structure of the course allows each student to pursue independent interests.FBRS 611 Fibres and Material Practices II (6 credits)
A continuation of FBRS 610.FBRS 612 Fibres and Material Practices III (6 credits)
A continuation of FBRS 611.FBRS 613 Fibres and Material Practices IV (6 credits)
A continuation of FBRS 612.IMCA 610 Intermedia (Video, Performance and Electronic Arts) I (6 credits)
A studio course providing an opportunity for intense investigation in video, performance and electronic arts, as well as other disciplines. Under the supervision of a faculty member, the structure of the course allows each participant to pursue independent studio practice.
Note: Students who have received credit for OPME 610 may not take this course for credit.IMCA 611 Intermedia (Video, Performance and Electronic Arts) II (6 credits)
A continuation of IMCA 610.
Note: Students who have received credit for OPME 611 may not take this course for credit.
IMCA 612 Intermedia (Video, Performance and Electronic Arts) III (6 credits)
A continuation of IMCA 611.
Note: Students who have received credit for OPME 612 may not take this course for credit.IMCA 613 Intermedia (Video, Performance and Electronic Arts) IV (6 credits)
A continuation of IMCA 612.
Note: Students who have received credit for OPME 613 may not take this course for credit.PTNG 610 Painting I (6 credits)
A studio course providing opportunity for intense investigation into a wide range of approaches to painting. Under the supervision of a professor the structure of the course allows each student to pursue individual interests in painting.PTNG 611 Painting II (6 credits)
A continuation of PTNG 610.PTNG 612 Painting III (6 credits)
A continuation of PTNG 611.PTNG 613 Painting IV (6 credits)
A continuation of PTNG 612.PHOT 610 Photography I (6 credits)
A studio course providing investigation into a broadly defined concept of photography. Under the supervision of a professor each student pursues independent studio practice.PHOT 611 Photography II (6 credits)
A continuation of PHOT 610.PHOT 612 Photography III (6 credits)
A continuation of PHOT 611.PHOT 613 Photography IV (6 credits)
A continuation of PHOT 612.PRIN 610 Print Media I (6 credits)
A studio course providing intense investigation of the technical and theoretical concerns of diverse forms of print media. Under the supervision of a professor, each student pursues independent studio practice.PRIN 611 Print Media II (6 credits)
A continuation of PRIN 610.PRIN 612 Print Media III (6 credits)
A continuation of PRIN 611.PRIN 613 Print Media IV (6 credits)
A continuation of PRIN 612.SCUL 610 Sculpture I (6 credits)
A studio course offering the opportunity for intense investigation into the formation of visual and material culture in art. Under the supervision of a professor each student may pursue independent studio practice.SCUL 611 Sculpture II (6 credits)
A continuation of SCUL 610.SCUL 612 Sculpture III (6 credits)
A continuation of SCUL 611.SCUL 613 Sculpture IV (6 credits)
A continuation of SCUL 612.DISP 615 Directed Studio Practice (3 credits)
Under the guidance of an instructor, students will pursue a directed studio practice.SeminarsASEM 620 Art: Ideas and Practices (3 credits)
This seminar addresses the relationship between theory and studio practice. Professional and practical issues facing the artist will be discussed.ASEM 641 Seminar in Contemporary Art (6 credits)
This course addresses issues which situate and inform artists and their work.ASEM 642 Seminar in Contemporary Art (3 credits)
This course addresses issues which situate and inform artists and their work.ASEM 643 Special Topics in Art and Ideology (6 credits)
Special topics will address a variety of issues that are factors in the making, presentation and the situating of art in society.ASEM 644 Special Topics In Art and Ideology (3 credits)
Special topics will address a variety of issues that are factors in the making, presentation and the situating of art in society.ASEM 645 Special Topics in Art and Culture (6 credits)
Topics are drawn from a variety of discourses to address the construction of identity in contemporary art and society.ASEM 646 Special Topics in Art and Culture (3 credits)
Topics are drawn from a variety of discourses to address the construction of identity in contemporary art and society.ASEM 651 Special Topics in Media Arts (6 credits)
Topics may address a wide range of critical fields related to media art practices, examining both conventional and non-traditional artworks such as performance, audio, video, and computer art, as well as other media.ASEM 652 Special Topics in Media Arts (3 credits)
Topics may address a wide range of critical fields related to media art practices, examining both conventional and non-traditional artworks such as performance, audio, video, and computer art, as well as other media.ASEM 653 Aspects of Contemporary Cinema (6 credits)
This seminar examines critical issues in contemporary cinema.ASEM 654 Aspects of Contemporary Cinema (3 credits)
This seminar examines critical issues in contemporary cinema.Internship and Independent StudyINTP 660 Professional Internship (6 credits)
Prerequisite: 21 credits completed in the MFA Program. Internship proposal must be supported by a full-time faculty member and approved with written permission by the MFA Graduate Program Director.
Under the joint supervision of a qualified professional and a full-time faculty member the student will be employed within industry, or by a professional organization or other relevant affiliation. Assessment is based upon a required paper, contributions to supervisory sessions and the successful completion of the internship (300 hours).INTP 661 Professional Internship I (3 credits)
Prerequisite: 21 credits completed in the MFA Program. Internship proposal must be supported by a full-time faculty member and approved with written permission by the MFA Graduate Program Director.
Under the joint supervision of a qualified professional and a full-time faculty member the student will be employed within industry, or by a professional organization or other relevant affiliation. Assessment is based upon a required paper, contributions to supervisory sessions and the successful completion of the internship (150 hours).INTP 662 Professional Internship II (3 credits)
Prerequisite: 21 credits completed in the MFA Program. Internship proposal must be supported by a full-time faculty member and approved with written permission by the MFA Graduate Program Director.
Under the joint supervision of a qualified professional and a full-time faculty member the student will be employed within industry, or by a professional organization or other relevant affiliation. Assessment is based upon a required paper, contributions to supervisory sessions and the successful completion of the internship (150 hours).INDS 670 Independent Study (6 credits)
Prerequisite: 21 credits completed in the MFA Program. Independent study proposal must be supported by a full-time faculty supervisor and approved with written permission by the MFA Graduate Program Director.
The student explores a specific field or topic relevant to their area of study.INDS 671 Independent Study I (3 credits)
Prerequisite: 21 credits completed in the MFA Program. Independent study proposal must be supported by a full-time faculty supervisor and approved with written permission by the MFA Graduate Program Director.
The student explores a specific field or topic relevant to their area of study.INDS 672 Independent Study II (3 credits)
Prerequisite: 21 credits completed in the MFA Program. Independent study proposal must be supported by a full-time faculty supervisor and approved with written permission by the MFA Graduate Program Director.
The student explores a specific field or topic relevant to their area of study.Studio Project and ExaminationPROJ 691 Studio Project (9 credits)
With the guidance of a faculty advisor, students prepare work leading to an exhibition or film project.PROJ 692 Exhibition or Film Project (3 credits)
Following the successful completion of the Studio Project, the student prepares a professional-level presentation within a public forum (gallery, screening room, etc.) accompanied by an artist’s statement. The candidate meets with an Examination Committee to describe the evolution of the work and to situate it in the context of current practice and theory. The Committee will question the student and determine whether or not to recommend that the student be awarded the MFA degree.Top© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
Studio ArtsProgram
Master of/Magisteriate in Fine Arts (Studio Arts)Department of Studio Arts WebsiteConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424