http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/students/success/learning-support/strategic-learning-sessions.htmlThe Strategic Learning Program is a program of facilitated study sessions organized for certain difficult courses. Research shows that students who attend SL sessions regularly (at least once a week) score higher final grades on average than students who do not attend. As well, students who attend SL regularly usually score higher than the class average. CLICK HERE to see which courses are holding SL sessions.Students have the opportunity to become actively involved in the course material as the SL leaders use the text, supplementary readings (if applicable) and lecture notes as vehicles for improving students’ study skills and learning strategies and thus their understanding of course content. Sessions of one hour each are scheduled outside class time, usually at three different times each week. Attendance is voluntary; groups are open to all students in the class throughout the semester. Research carried out on this program, which has been offered in many different universities since 1974 (sometimes under the name “Supplemental Instruction” or “SI”) shows that students who attend such groups earn higher course grades and withdraw less often than students who do not participate. Also, data demonstrate higher re-enrollment and graduation rates. Faculty and staff from over 900 institutions in the U.S. and twelve countries, including Canada, have been trained to implement this type of program. SL began at Concordia in April, 2001. SL leaders are undergraduate students who have recently taken the selected course and done well in it. Their role is to facilitate collaborative learning among students who attend the groups. To this end, they are trained in group facilitation and in study skills so that they can help students develop effective learning and study strategies appropriate to course material. They also serve as “model students” during the course: attending all classes, taking good notes, reading assigned material. SL Leaders do NOT lecture or teach course content; they help students interact with course material using effective learning strategies.  Student Success Centre
© Concordia UniversityLearning support
New students
Career and planning services
 Mentors
 Funding & awards
 Contact us
Appointments
How to register for workshops
About the Student Success CentreConcordia UniversityStrategic Learning ProgramStudent hub
            
                Student hub
            About strategic learningAbout strategic learning
                
            
                
					
                    Strategic learning schedule
                
            
                
					
                    Chemisty
                
            
                
					
                    Biology
                
            
                
					
                    Geography
                
            
                
					
                    What happens in a strategic learning class
                
            
                
					
                    Benefits of strategic learning
                
            
                
					
                    Who are strategic learning leaders?
                
            Contact usConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424