http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/alumni-friends/benefits-services/student-programs.htmlSupport from alumni for students — to build skills, to share and explore new ideas, to nurture growth and success,  to inspire others and to develop future leadersAlumni Relations encourages student growth with events and projects focused on skill, professional and career development. We recognize student success and provide funding for student projects and conferences.
 Alumni insightConcordia’s global community comprises 200,000 accomplished alumni with diverse backgrounds, experience and success stories.We connect our alumni to our student community in a variety of initiatives and events throughout the academic year.Join our mailing list to receive invitations for networking and professional development events on campus. At these events, our alumni actively connect and share their insight, career advice and experiences with you.Watch the amazing accomplishments of some of our alumni and check out some of Great Concordians.
 Opportunities and resourcesTo develop students as leaders, we encourage students who start new initiatives that work towards improving campus life and creating a positive impact on the Concordia community.Let us help you succeed by giving you insight on special opportunities and resources.As a Student Leader, you will have the opportunity to attend unique events that will encourage personal growth and development for success.A Student Leader is involved in one or many of the following activities:Get on the list to be invited to these events.Whether you’re involved on campus and looking for support or you’re simply interested in learning more about leadership – we are here to help.Get in touch with us! We’re happy to help with support, development opportunities within our programs and connections with our partners on campus.
 Student initiatives and achievementsWe take pride in positive student impact, big or small! We strive to build awareness of student achievements and we want to recognize initiatives, hard work and success.There are three ways we will recognized you for an achievement, for receiving an award or for work on a unique project or cause: Note – only selected applicants will receive all three forms; most may receive one or two.You’re volunteering on campus for a great student cause and contributing to the Concordia community. We want to share this with our alumni and networks.Student causes include:You had a great idea and managed to make it happen. Let us know about your success and we’ll support your work with the recognition it deserves.Student projects:You’ve just won an award! Let us know what it is – we take pride in outstanding student achievement and accomplishments on campus and in the larger global community.Student awards for recognition include:
 Supporting student projectsNeed funding for your project idea? The Concordia University Alumni Association (CUAA) takes pride in supporting student initiatives and encouraging student success.Applications are reviewed four times a year and are evaluated according to the following criteria:
All applicants will receive application results via email.Prepare the following documents in ELECTRONIC FORMAT (MS Word or PDF):Once you have these documents:CUAA Application for Student Project Funding
c/o: Beth McKenna, Alumni Officer - Student and Young Alumni
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W., Suite FB-520
Montreal, QC H3G 1M81250 Guy St., Suite 520 (5th floor)Once you have received confirmation that your funding has been accepted, please do the following:When applying for Project and Conference Funding, be sure to include a thank you to us in your social media, before, during or after your application process as well as throughout the project, event or conference.You can also include us in your social media prior to approval of funding.Please include our hashtag or tag us as appropriate: Thank you! We look forward to reviewing your application. © Concordia UniversityAdvancement & Alumni Relations, 514-848-2424, ext. 4856Concordia UniversityStudent programsAlumni & friends
            
                Alumni & friends
            Inspirational alumniImportant datesImportant informationInspirational alumniLeadership opportunitiesLeadership resourcesRecognition for a CAUSERecognition for a PROJECTRecognition for an AWARDHow to applyThanking on social mediaConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424MailDrop-off