http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/services/career/employers/sustainability.htmlIs your organization involved with and moving forward in sustainable initiatives/best practices? Could you use a helping hand? Would you like to be part of a unique program aimed at providing business students with valuable career-related experience as well as a deeper understanding of best business practices?If so, we invite you to hire a business student through our Sustainable Internship Program (SIP). Giving students a chance to gain practical experience, will help to develop and nurture future business leaders who aspire to be more responsible leaders.
Interested students may find more information about the SIP at the program page for students.If your company/organization is interested in learning more about the JMSB Sustainable Internship Program, please contact do not hesitate to contact us for further information.  We would be more than happy to set up a mutually convenient time to meet (if necessary) to discuss the objectives of the program in further detail. Otherwise, we can engage in a phone-call to discuss your needs and how SIP can be a mutually beneficial experience. 

Internships are normally available for one term: Fall (September to December), Winter (February- April) and Summer (May-August). Most part-time Internships run from 15-25 hours and full-time internships from 30-40 hours a week during the summer and/or throughout the year.The Sustainable Internship Program is a collaborative program developed by the David O’Brien Centre for Sustainable Enterprise and the John Molson School of Business (JMSB) Career Management Services (CMS).The objective of the Sustainable Internship Program is to give undergraduate and graduate students at JMSB the opportunity to gain valuable and related experience within the domain of sustainability.Internship positions must deal/or offer exposure to practices related to sustainability, CSR, ethics, diversity, social economy, socio-economic development and / or other issues. The intern should have the opportunity to work on diverse projects and tasks during the internship period. Exposure is the key to awareness and development.If you would like to post an internship with us, please contact us at:
 sustainable.internship@concordia.caEmilia Maiello, Career Advisor
Career Management Services
Phone: 514-848-2424, ext. 4230
Email: emilia.maiello@concordia.caStéfanie Kibsey, Program Coordinator
David O’Brien Centre for Sustainable Enterprise
Phone: 514-848-2424, ext. 2863
E-mail: stefanie.kibsey@concordia.caeCause Canada"eCause is so grateful to have had the opportunity in 2011 to work with 2 incredibly talented students studying at JMSB. As a company determined to make a difference in the wellness of people and planet, it was encouraging to team up with the SIP program on their similar mission and even more encouraging to see so many students embrace sustainability and it’s need to be incorporated in every part of our lives. The Sustainable Internship Program team has created an ideal situation for both student and employer, setting guidelines that fulfill both party’s needs. Students with eCause had the opportunity to work in a variety of projects within the company, ranging from website upgrades to marketing and social media, brand development, accounting and sales. We are grateful for the existence of programs such as SIP, not only for the quality and calibre for the students we employed but for our opportunity to help provide experiences to students who have not yet had the chance to see their skills and knowledge put into action". 

Joyce Shanks
 President and founder of eCause Canada Inc.
eCause.caFour Green Steps"Four Green Steps is proud to have participated in the DOCSE-CMS Sustainable Internship Program. We are a Canadian-based global organization that is a mix of business and non-profit devoted to a greener future. Our goal is to provide every type of eco-friendly sustainable product on the market by building the internet’s largest online green shopping marketplace to show that all goods or services can be replaced with a green substitute. We supply a unique free environmental curriculum to schools worldwide, up-to-date information on environmental topics, community participation plus. Our mode of operations allowed our Interns to direct their internships towards their future business interests and participate closely with management. Their involvement in Four Green Steps was diverse and they would be welcomed in the future as employees should the opportunity arise. We look forward to a continued partnership with the DOCSE-CMS Sustainable Internship Program for many years to come." 

Jaye Yarrow
 President, Four Green Steps
fourgreensteps.com
Attend a career eventShare your success storyContact usRecruiting@JMSB Newsletter© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversitySustainable Internship ProgramJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            Related LinksJoin the conversationGet startedConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424The Sustainable Internship Program will offer your company the opportunity to:Mission & requirementshttp://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/services/career/students/sustainability.htmlThere is no doubt that companies are realizing that sustainability matters and that making sustainability a part of their corporate culture is a necessity for future success and growth. When going through the process of recruitment, employers are increasingly looking at the knowledge and understanding each and every potential candidate has in regards to sustainability. There is an understanding that as time goes on, it will be important for students to prepare themselves for their professional roles by understanding why change is necessary and why sustainability is important.

Employers are taking stalk of their triple bottom line and taking account of their social, economic and environmental impact. More and more, employers are strategically thinking about their overall operations and management and why it is important for future employees to embrace the importance of sustainability from both a professional and personal standpoint.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversitySustainabilityJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            Why is "sustainability" knowledge particularly important for business students?Related LinksConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424