http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/encs/info-systems-eng/seminars/2016/11/28/sustainable-smart-connected-societies-real-world-testbeds.htmlMonday, November 28, 2016 at 11:00 am
Room EV003.309The Fourth Industrial Revolution is shaping around new developments in artificial intelligence, robotics, nanotechnology, 3D printing and biotechnology, which will lay the foundation for a revolution more comprehensive and all-encompassing than anything we have ever seen. A cornerstone of this revolution are IoT, Cloud and 5G-based smart systems, which will help tackle problems ranging from supply chain management to climate change. This talk will shed the light on the aforementioned IoT based concepts and will show case Synchromedia CFI Smart ETS Residence project aimed to build a smart edge network for sustainable smart community service. Evolving from the smart edge is naturally next step to unlock vast innovations in a multitude of new applications. Additionally, this testbed is connected to newly acquired Telco datacenters in our ongoing projects with industry, to complete an ecosystem which holistically serves research on a variety of fundamental issues on big data analytics, machine learning, prediction, signal processing, and life-cycle orchestration. Dr. Mohamed Cheriet received M.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees in Computer Science from the University of Pierre & Marie Curie (Paris VI) in 1985 and 1988 respectively. Since 1992, he has been a professor in the Automation Engineering department at the École de Technologie Supérieure (University of Quebec), Montreal, and was appointed full Professor there in 1998. Prof. Cheriet is the founder and director of Synchromedia which targets multimedia communication in telepresence applications.Dr. Cheriet’s research has extensive experience in cloud computing and network virtualization and softwarisation. In addition, Dr. Cheriet is an expert in Computational Intelligence, Pattern Recognition, Machine Learning, and Perception. Dr. Cheriet has published more than 350 technical papers in the field.  He serves on the editorial boards of several renowned journals and international conferences. As Tier 1 Canada Research Chair on Sustainable and Smart Eco-Cloud, he leads the establishment of the first smart university campus in Canada, created as a hub for innovation and productivity at Montreal. Dr. Cheriet is a Fellow of IAPR, the recipient of the 2016 IEEE J.M. Ham Outstanding Engineering Educator Award and of the 2012 Queen Elizabeth II Diamond Jubilee Medal. He is a senior member of the IEEE, the founder and former Chair of the IEEE Montreal Chapter of Computational Intelligent Systems (CIS), and a Steering Committee Member of the IEEE Green ICT Initiative. 
Dr. Jia Yuan Yu
514-848-2424 ext. 2873
jiayuan.yu@concordia.caSearch for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityNovember 28, 2016: Invited Speaker Seminar: Sustainable Smart Connected Societies - Real-World TestbedsDepartment of Exercise Science
            
                Department of Exercise Science
            ContactDr. Mohamed Cheriet
University of QuebecAbstractBiography
Find an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424For additional information, please contact: