http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/about/jobs/tenure-track-finance-real-estate1.htmlJOHN MOLSON SCHOOL OF BUSINESS
CONCORDIA UNIVERSITY, MONTREAL, QUEBEC, CANADA
ASSISTANT OR ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR, DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE STARTING AUGUST 1, 2017The Department of Finance at Concordia University is seeking, subject to budgetary approval, qualified applicants for one tenure track positions at the Assistant or Associate Professor level starting August 1, 2017. The candidate’s primary area of interest should be Real Estate. The new hire would add to our existing resources and increase our research productivity in Real Estate. Collaboration with faculties and students from different areas, including economics, regional science, geography, planning and environmental studies and with real estate practitioners is expected. Qualifications are a Ph.D. in real estate, finance or related academic disciplines, with a strong orientation to academic research and evidence of excellent teaching in real estate. Successful candidates will be responsible for teaching courses at the Undergraduate, MBA, M.Sc., and/or Ph.D. levels, advising students, serving on committees and engaging in activities that benefit the department, school and University. Salaries are competitive and will be commensurate with qualifications and experience. Applicants will be expected to teach up to two courses per term and to be active in research. The John Molson School of Business is accredited by AACSB. All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadian and permanent residents will be given priority. Concordia University is committed to employment equity. Applications should be submitted by December 1, 2016 (October 1, 2016 for consideration for interviews at the FMA Conference). Review of applications will start immediately and will continue until the position is filled. The Department will acknowledge all applications. However, only the short-listed candidates will be contacted further.Three reference letters should be forwarded by the referees to the e-mail address below. Please send, in electronic format, a cover letter, curriculum vitae, research and teaching statements, teaching evaluations, evidence of research, including copies of recent publications and any other supporting documentation to:Dr. Abraham I. Brodt, Chair, Department of Finance, John Molson School of Business, Concordia University, c/oSandra Romanini, Department of Finance Co-ordinator, John Molson School of Business, Concordia University: sandra.romanini@concordia.ca © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityTenure-track appointment in Real EstateJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424