http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/about/jobs/tenure-track-data-science.htmlApplications are invited for a tenure-track position in the area of Data Science, with a focus in Business Analytics and Big Data. Subject to budgetary approval, the appointment will be made at the rank of Assistant Professor and will be effective as of July 1, 2017.The successful candidate is expected to contribute to the business school’s rising research profile, participate in the development of our active Data Analytics program of research and curriculum, serve on various academic committees, obtain external funding and demonstrate effective communication skills, commitment to teaching, and publication record. The successful candidate will be expected to develop courses such as Business Analytics Strategy, Applied Analytics, Data-Driven Quality Management, and Analytical Decision Making Tools, and teach undergraduate and graduate level courses (such as data analysis, software for data analytics, data management, data mining, and predictive analytics). Applicants are expected to have a PhD in hand and possess strong applied statistics skills in data modelling and predictive analytics; excellent understanding of machine learning techniques and algorithms; experience with common data science toolkits and data visualization tools; proficiency in using query languages such as SQL and experience with NoSQL databases.The Department of Supply Chain and Business Technology Management is one of the five departments in the John Molson School of Business (JMSB). The Department is multi-disciplinary as it houses Supply Chain Management, Business Technology Management and Data Analytics groups.Review of applications will start immediately and will continue until the position is filled. The Department will acknowledge all applications. However, only the short-listed candidates will be contacted. All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadian and permanent residents will be given priority. Concordia University is committed to employment equity. Three reference letters should be forwarded by the referees to the e-mail address below. Please send, in electronic format, a cover letter, curriculum vitae, teaching evaluations, copies of recent publications and any other supporting documentation to:Rustam Vahidov, PhD, Professor and Chair
 scbtm.jmsb@concordia.ca © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityTenure-track position in Data ScienceJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            Related linksConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424