http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/student-life/international-students/buddy-program/testimonials.htmlBeing a JMSB LIFE Buddy was an invaluable learning experience for me. During my two semesters as a senior lead buddy, I developed strong relationships with fellow students, creating long lasting friendships.  Helping new students integrate and find their way was an enriching experience. I am proud to have been a part of this incredible program!Alexa ChangThe JMSB LIFE Buddy program is a great way to meet new and interesting people from all over the world. By participating in this program I learned about different cultures and traditions and made new friends. I highly recommend this enriching experience to my peers.Jonathan GoddardThe JMSB LIFE program was a tremendous opportunity for me.  It allowed me to make new connections with peers, academic advisors and faculty. What I valued most about participating as a senior lead buddy was the rewarding feeling for having helped new students adapt to their new university life. JMSB LIFE was an invaluable learning experience!Christian ToumiéInvolvement! Friendship! Enjoyment! These are the keywords that defined my experience as a JMSB LIFE Buddy. I really enjoyed helping new international students start their new life at JMSB Concordia. I invite senior students to participate in the JMSB LIFE program to share their experiences and to help fellow students integrate into a new environment and culture.Yingting LiSend an email to jmsb.life@concordia.ca.Interested? Fill out the on-line form!© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityTestimonialsJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of BusinessQuestions?How to applyConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Application deadlineshttp://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/services/career/students/testimonials.htmlMasters in Business Administration (MBA)
Business Analyst, Bombardier Aerospace"My experience with CMS was a very positive one for one reason - the individuals who work at the CMS truly care.  I appreciated the personalized treatment, timely follow-ups, helpful resources and guidance. I felt a level of commitment and support through my job search and in choosing my career path. I have no doubt that my JMSB family, including CMS, has played a significant role in helping me launch my career at Bombardier Aerospace where I am currently working as a Business Analyst."
Bachelor of Commerce, Major Human Resource Management
Recruitment Coordinator, Hewitt Associates"Several months before graduating from JMSB, I had arranged a meeting with a Career Advisor for advice on launching my blossoming career in HR. I came to CMS and received guidance, support, sound advice along with knowledge directly related to HR. The insight and consistent support was remarkable and now, I have happily begun my career as a Recruitment Coordinator  for Hewitt Associates. I am eternally grateful for the tremendous support CMS has given me and recommend that all students meet with these amazing people."
Bachelor of Commerce, Major International Business
Research Assistant, BCA Research"The most memorable and effective workshop was Job Search Boot Camp; a balance between individual and group training sessions which allowed me realize and develop my strengths. Furthermore, the Job Search Boot Camp Bible was truly my “go to” book during my job search process. I strongly believe that all of the resources provided by CMS helped me stand out during the interview process as well as helped me to land my first job as Research Assistant for BCA Research. I am thrilled and very grateful!"Bachelor of Commerce, Major Supply Chain Management, Minor Finance
Assistant Account Manager, General Electric Capital"CMS taught me that finding a job is more than just polishing up a resume and mass applying online. Finding a dream job is all about networking and being the right “fit”. By taking some sound advice from my advisor at CMS, on the importance of differentiation, not only did I learn about the importance of building a marketable resume, I learned how to effectively sell my leadership and people skills. The CMS staff definitely helped carve out my career path and I am thrilled to be working as an Assistant Account Manager at General Electric Capital."Masters in Business Administration (MBA)
Operations Leadership Associate, BMO"Enrolling in the MBA Program at JMSB, I had one very important goal in mind: to perform well in order to secure an exciting and challenging new job. CMS provided the additional support, confidence and attention that allowed me to make myself increasingly visible to many major companies. The CMS team definitely helped me achieve my new role at BMO as Operations Leadership Associate."Bachelor of Commerce, Major Finance
Investment Banking at National Bank Financial"CMS allowed me to discover my career path and improve my skills in order to succeed. I visited CMS in my first semester at JMSB and returned for follow-ups every semester afterwards. The advice for CV building, cover letters, interviews, job-hunting, as well as the real-world advice was invaluable. With CMS’ assistance I was able to obtain an internship , followed by a full-time job in Investment Banking at National Bank Financial. Thanks to CMS and my career advisor!"Bachelor of Commerce, Major Marketing
Key Accounts Sales position at RICOH Canada Inc."When I look back at my years at JMSB, there are people that have truly enhanced the experience especially my career advisor in marketing and the rest of the team at CMS. Through CMS' sponsored events, I was able to learn more about interesting career options and meet with business leaders, long before I was actually in job search mode. This allowed me to make informed career decisions and build my network Furthermore, CMS helped me develop a resume that would truly represent the skills, abilities and experience I had acquired. They were an essential partner in landing me a Key Accounts Sales position at RICOH Canada Inc. I highly suggest that all students get involved with CMS as soon as possible; they have proven to be a key partner in jump starting my own career."Bachelor of Commerce, Major Marketing
Management Trainee, Loblaw CorporationThe help I received from my advisor at CMS was key in helping me land my job as a Management Trainee with the Loblaw Corporation. She helped me update my resume, provided key interview tips, suggested opportunities to network, and was there for extra help and support. I am now part of a large, growing Canadian corporation. I love what I do and the challenges I incur every day. I would never have considered this amazing opportunity without learning about it through CMS. All JMSB Students should visit CMS! It is in the best interest for their future career!Bachelor of Commerce, Major Marketing
Marketing Coordinator, Mosaic"I am amazed by the organization and opportunities that Career Management Services makes available to business students at JMSB. I became determined to make the most of these opportunities and attended numerous company networking events and most recently, the CMS Job Bootcamp; the stepping stone in finding the Marketing Coordinator position at Mosaic. I appreciated being in the presence of knowledgeable and dynamic career advisors who genuinely cared about my future. They gave me the techniques to master and maximize my career job search, rightfully position myself as a great asset for the demands of my job market, and take proactive steps in my job search. A heartfelt thank you to CMS and all of the advisors!"Bachelor of Commerce, Major Accountancy
Assurance &  Advisory Services, Ernst & Young"I am truly amazed at how Career Management Services has helped me to develop my career management skills. My communication, presentation, leadership and transferrable skills have improved tremendously. I am grateful that I have had the opportunity to participate in the volunteer program as a Peer Advisor and the opportunity to work as a Marketing Coordinator under the work-study program. I feel like this is my second home where I have had the opportunity to grow both professionally and socially. Thanks to CMS, I have successfully landed my dream job in Assurance &  Advisory Services at Ernst & Young. I sincerely appreciate CMS and highly recommend that all students take advantage of such great services."Attend a career eventShare your success storyContact us© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityTestimonialsJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            How I benefited from working with career management services...Connect with usKey resourcesJoin the conversationConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Nura AskarCynthia Cohen-Tordjman Alexandra De SouzaKalil DiazAnnaleigh GreeneEvelyne L’ArchevêqueJonathan B. Mailhot Angela MarchettaVenkatesa (Ven) VirahsammyDenise Zhiwen Zhanghttp://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/services/career/employers/testimonials.htmlRecruter à JMSB est toujours un plaisir parce que nous pouvons compter sur l'équipe hors pair du Service de gestion de carrière et d’un bassin de candidats, stagiaires ou gradués aux programmes Baccalauréat ou Maîtrise, des plus performants. Merci et Bravo!Lucille Therrien
Directrice, Recrutement et dotation
Banque ScotiaJMSB and their recruitment process is one of the major reasons why OSTC decided to expand their international operations to Montreal. The quality of the candidates, how they perform in a real work environment and their absolute resolution to perform makes OSTC see JMSB as a importance piece of OSTC success.  Thank you!

Sebastiao Lagarto
Senior Office Manager
OSTC Group CanadaWe have always been greeted with a positive and professional manner when working with JMSB. This inspires the confidence needed when putting our employment needs in their hands. Working with this team is never a task, but a pleasure. We look forward to working with you in the future.

Carly Stanway
Talent Acquisition Specialist, Campus
PwCReitmans Canada Limited chooses to come to JMSB events time and time again as we always meet great students who are genuinely interested in the retail industry.  As a Canadian retailer who has their home office in Montreal, we have interesting career opportunities for students looking to join our company.  Many of our employees are JMSB alumni’s and they work in many different departments: e-comm, planning and allocation, DC, Operations, Finance and Marketing to only name a few.   it is important for us to partner with JMSB as the students we meet are knowledgeable, bilingual and passionate.  We look forward to our next networking event!
 
Marysa Gattola
Staffing Manager
Reitmans (Canada) Ltd. Reitmans (Canada) LtdAttend a career eventShare your success storyContact usRecruiting@JMSB Newsletter© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityEmployer testimonialsJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            Join the conversationGet startedConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424