http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/theological-studies-ma.htmlFrom its modest beginnings in the mid-1st century to its rise as the world’s biggest religion, Christianity’s role within society is in constant evolution. With the Church now operating in a pluralistic society, we need academic researchers more than ever to respectfully approach the history of theology while maintaining an eye on the future.The MA in Theological Studies offers you the chance to explore the relationships between varieties of religious experience and human society. Positioning itself in the humanities, our program provides an interdisciplinary environment for advanced research by using tools and methodologies present in other disciplines such as philosophy, history and languages.You’ll join a vibrant community of researchers and faculty members who will encourage you to go beyond established disciplinary boundaries as you examine the function of theology and faith in a secular era.Our diverse student body is composed of individuals with a variety of religious backgrounds, or no religious backgrounds at all, as well as people who have questions about faith and spirituality. Our alumni are well-placed to continue in the field by pursuing doctoral studies or working in various sectors of the society.Requirements for the DegreeYou may choose one of two options:We encourage students who have a rich background in Theological Studies and plan to continue their studies at the doctoral level to write a thesis (option A).Admission Requirements. A solid undergraduate preparation with a range of competence similar to that demanded of Major students at Concordia, and a minimum B average in their undergraduate studies. Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be required to take up to 12 undergraduate credits in addition to and as a part of the regular graduate program. Admission into the program is on recommendation of the Graduate Studies Committee.Language Requirements. Thesis proposals which depend on special linguistic skills will be accepted only from students competent in the appropriate languages.Your completed application will include:Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures. All applications must be submitted to the Graduate Admissions Application Centre.Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Courses typically offered include:Consult the graduate calendar for a list of courses.The department offers one or two financial packages per year for outstanding students applying to enter the MA in Theological Studies full-time in the fall (valued at $7,000). To be considered, your complete application should be submitted by January 15.Financial aid is also available to students interested in Teaching or Research Assistantships (valued between $2,000 - $6,000). Contact the Graduate Program Director or your supervisor for more information on these opportunities.Please also consult Concordia’s graduate funding page and Financial Aid and Awards.Choose your supervisor from amongst leading researchers. Speak to the graduate program director to discuss the process of selecting a supervisor.Faculty interests include:Review an inspiring list of thesis topics and student-produced multi-disciplinary journal, Word in the World. Our graduates have gone on to have successful careers in such areas as:Email: Concetta.Difruscia@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2475Location: 
 2140 Bishop St., D 103
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 2E9 Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityTheological Studies (MA)Key resourcesProgram options & degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application process
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Funding
                
            
                
					
                    Finding your supervisor
                
            
                
					
                    Emerging ideas — student projects
                
            
                
					
                    Your professional future
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a master’s in Theological Studies?Program DetailsRelated ProgramsMaster of Arts (MA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424