http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/calendar/current/fasc/theo.htmlAdmission Requirements. A solid undergraduate preparation with a range of competence similar to that demanded of Major students at Concordia, and a minimum B average in their undergraduate studies. Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be required to take up to 12 undergraduate credits in addition to and as a part of the regular graduate program. Admission into the program is on recommendation of the Graduate Studies Committee.Language Requirements. Thesis proposals which depend on special linguistic skills will be accepted only from students competent in the appropriate languages.Requirements for the DegreeAcademic RegulationsOption A: MA with ThesisRequired courses: THEO 603 Method in Theology (3 credits), THEO 604Theological Hermeneutics (3 credits), THEO 605 Methods in Biblical Studies (3 credits), THEO 690 Annotated Bibilography and Thesis Proposal (6 credits).Electives: 9 credits from THEO 620-675.Thesis: THEO 697 Thesis (21 credits).Option B: MA with Applied Project in TheologyRequired courses: THEO 603 Method in Theology (3 credits), THEO 604 Theological Hermeneutics (3 credits), THEO 605 Methods in Biblical Studies (3 credits).Electives: 18 credits from THEO 620-675.Research: THEO 691 Research Paper (9 credits), THEO 692 Applied Project in Theology (9 credits).CoursesThe required THEO 603 and THEO 605 will be offered in alternate years. THEO 604 will be offered every two years or as needed.The courses offered are one-term, 3-credit courses unless otherwise indicated. A list designating which specific courses are to be offered in any given year, with description of content, will be compiled and distributed prior to registration. Topic CoursesTopics in ScriptureTHEO 621 Old Testament I
 THEO 623 Old Testament II
 THEO 627 Questions in Old Testament Research
 THEO 629 Intertestament Studies
 THEO 631 New Testament I
 THEO 633 New Testament II
 THEO 635 New Testament III
 THEO 637 Questions in New Testament Research
THEO 639 Biblical StudiesTopics in Church HistoryTHEO 641 History I
 THEO 643 History II
 THEO 645 History III
 THEO 647 Research in History of Christian Thought
 THEO 649 Questions in Christian WorshipTopics in TheologyTHEO 651 Theology I
 THEO 653 Theology II
 THEO 655 Theology III
 THEO 657 Questions in Theological Research
 THEO 661 Ecclesiology I
 THEO 663 Ecclesiology II
 THEO 664 Ecclesiology III
 THEO 667 Research In Ecclesiology
 THEO 669 Theology & World ReligionsTopics in Christian EthicsTHEO 671 Ethics I
 THEO 673 Ethics II
 THEO 675 Issues in Ethical ResearchTHEO 603 Method in Theology (3 credits)
This course introduces students to theological method: the questions, insights, and philosophical presuppositions that determine theological frameworks with some attention to modern systematic theology and Christian ethics. Students acquire a differentiated appreciation for the types of theology, the scope of distinct theological fields, and their research horizons.THEO 604 Theological Hermeneutics (3 credits)
This course introduces students to the notion of church as interpretative community, and to experience diverse ways of utilizing this notion. Students develop an understanding of the basic principles of theological hermeneutics (the science or theory of interpretation), including a survey of the history of the disciple from early times up to present day.THEO 605 Methods in Biblical Studies (3 credits)
This course focuses on tools and methods employed in biblical studies and ancient literature related to the Bible (up to 600 CE). Synchronic and diachronic approaches are discussed but the course focuses primarily on diachronic methods (form and genre criticism, comparative method, etc.) Students are trained to develop skills in analyzing texts using biblical methods.THEO 690 Annotated Bibliography and Thesis Proposal (6 credits)
The annotated bibliography and thesis proposal constitute preliminary phases necessary for the writing of the MA thesis. The annotated bibliography and thesis proposal are supervised by the supervisor of the thesis and are assessed on a pass/fail basis.
The annotated bibliography and thesis proposal constitute preliminary phases necessary for the writing of the MA thesis. The annotated bibliography and thesis proposal are supervised by the supervisor of the thesis and are assessed on a pass/fail basis.
Note: Students who have received credit for THEO 685 or 695 may not take this course for credit.THEO 691 Research Paper (9 credits)
The guided research project involves the preparation of a substantial research paper. It may be prepared in conjunction with any seminar course but will be separate from the basic course requirements.THEO 692 Applied Project in Theology (9 credits)
The aim of this course is to give the student the opportunity to engage in critical theological reflection by frequenting a milieu where theological interpretation occurs on a regular basis (e.g. a local parish, a confessional school, a religious formation program like the Christian Training Program, religious programming in the media, etc.) in order to assess the theological models presupposed in the activity studied. The practicum will include a 3 credit reading component related to the field of study.THEO 697 Thesis (21 credits)
The thesis shall consist in the presentation of the research results. Each thesis shall be examined by a committee consisting of the student’s supervisor and by at least two other scholars from the Department. The remaining regulations concerning the thesis examination are in accordance with the School of Graduate Studies (See Thesis Regulations).Cognate CoursesWith permission of the Graduate Program Director up to 6 credits may be chosen from graduate offerings in other Departments at Concordia or other universities. Permission of the graduate director of the respective program must also be granted.Top© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
Theological StudiesProgram
Master of/Magisteriate in Arts (Theological Studies)Department of Theological Studies WebsiteConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424