http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/therapeutic-recreation.htmlWhen you study Therapeutic Recreation, your passion for people shapes you into an agent for change. As a therapeutic recreation specialist, you assess individual leisure needs in order to design specialized programs for individuals with physical, social, intellectual, or emotional disabilities. You may work alongside a team of occupational and physical therapists and social workers to maintain or improve a client’s quality of life and enhance his or her independence.The curriculum bridges the classroom and the outside community, giving you real-life experiences that hone your leadership and teamwork skills. You’ll also:Concordia’s hands-on approach provides a solid foundation for future graduate studies in such fields as recreation and leisure studies, organization or community development or public or business administration. Students graduate with practical skills that let them flourish in the health-care services sector.A Bachelor of Arts or Science degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, depending on your academic background.Program options:See full degree requirements for this option in the Undergraduate CalendarAll applicants to the Specialization in Therapeutic Recreation program are required to submit a Letter of Intent with their Concordia University admission application. This is your opportunity as a prospective student to express, in writing, why you wish to enter the Department of Applied Human Sciences. The letter should include:Special note: CEGEP graduates of Techniques de Loisirs (Dawson College), Special Care Counselling (Vanier College, Lasalle College), Social Services (Dawson College) and Correctional Technology (John Abbott College) may have credits applied to their degrees based on their course of study at CEGEP. Applicants will be informed of any credits awarded in their Offer of Admission.Minimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.Make sure you also meet Concordia’s minimum admission requirements.We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places are still available for the fall term only.We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
 Consult the undergraduate calendar for a complete list of current courses.Therapeutic Recreation alumni establish careers the health-care sector. They often collaborate with other health-care professionals in hospitals, long-term care facilities, schools, private business and community programs that provide services to marginalized individuals.A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityTherapeutic Recreation (BA)Related programsKey resourcesJoin the ConversationDegree options
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Sample classes
                
            
                
					
                    After your degreeWhy study Therapeutic Recreation?Program DetailsUnited States  studentsBachelor of Arts (BA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Cegep StudentsAdditional RequirementsMinimum Cut-off Averages