http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/translation-studies-ma.htmlAs the world grows smaller, translators play an increasingly important role in facilitating connections between individuals and cultures.Using a multidisciplinary lens, you’ll develop a deep understanding of the function and meaning of translation in the context of globalization and cultural diversity.  You’ll translate either from English to French, or from French to English.  Choose from two options:You’ll have the option of completing an internship during your program, drawing on the department’s close ties to the translation industry in Quebec and beyond.Our students benefit from a supportive learning environment, thanks to small class sizes and faculty members committed to individualized mentoring.Montreal, the largest French-speaking city after Paris, offers an incredibly stimulating climate for studying translation.See full degree requirements in the graduate calendarChoose from two options:See the frequently asked questions.Your complete application for the professional option (Option A) will include a statement of purpose outlining your educational background and experience, as well as your goals in the program.Students applying for the research-based option (Option B) may be required to write an entry examination designed to assess their language competency and cultural knowledge.See admission requirements in the graduate calendarYour completed application will include:Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures.Priority is given to those who apply before the deadline.Consult the graduate calendar for a complete list of current courses.We’re committed to providing students the support they need to focus on their studies. Top students benefit from numerous scholarships, ranging from $500 to $7,000 per award. We also offer research assistantships.Your supervisors will be chosen from amongst leading researchers.  Speak to the graduate program director to discuss your options.The Département d’études françaises is unique in bringing together three sectors of language study: language, literature and translation. This distinctive combination gives the department its flexibility and originality, and has led to recognition for its innovative, multidisciplinary approach to research. Aware of the extensive knowledge shifts, overlappings, and flows in the contemporary world, professors in the department attach great importance to collaboration, the sharing of ideas, and fresh approaches.See what our students are working on. Review an inspiring list of thesis topics.In the last three years, two of our students have obtained residencies at the Banff International Literary Translation Centre. Read the account by Nicolas Coutlée.The Master’s program opens up numerous career opportunities in Canada and beyond.Email: Helene.Medeiros@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 7509Location: 
 1400 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W., LB 601.01
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H3G 2V8 Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityTranslation Studies (MA)Key resourcesProgram options & degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application process
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Funding
                
            
                
					
                    Finding your supervisors
                
            
                
					
                    Research expertise
                
            
                
					
                    Emerging ideas — student projects
                
            
                
					
                    Literary translation residency in Banff
                
            
                
					
                    Your professional future
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a master’s in Translation Studies?Program detailsRelated ProgramsMaster of Arts (MA)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424