http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/visiting-exchange.htmlAn exciting feature of any university education is the contact students make with individuals from around the world. However, nothing compares to actually discovering the world for yourself!Outgoing CSEPers are full-time BComm or BAdmin program students at JMSB who:JMSB students who study abroad on the CSEP pay their tuition to Concordia University and not to the host institution. JMSB undergraduate students who wish to participate in the Concordia Student Exchange Program (CSEP) must meet the following requirements and observe specific rules:JMSB students who wish to study at an institution that does not have an CSEP partnership with our school or who are not eligible for the CSEP, can apply to be a Visiting International Fee-Paying Outgoing Student at a particularinstitution. However, since this program is not a standardized Study Abroad Program, while away, student will not be recognized as full-time Concordia University student and therefore may not be eligible for government funding/loans while studying abroad. Students wishing to study abroad at non-partner institutions must complete the Student Request Form, a typed letter of intent for why you wish to study abroad, full-course listing and course descriptions for intended study and meet with Amanda Holt.  Students with cumulative GPAs 2.70 and above will be considered.To book an appointment with Amanda Holt, please call 514-848-2424, ext. 2721.Students may study at the John Molson School of Business for one or two semesters as part of an exchange agreement with Concordia University (i.e. Bilateral or CREPUQ).Students who wish to study at Concordia University’s John Molson School of Business, but whose home institution is not a recognized JMSB exchange partner or whose home institution has already filled its reserved exchange (ISEP) spots with other nominated students, can request to be nominated as Visiting International Fee-Paying (VIFP) applicants.Students who wish to study at Concordia University’s John Molson School of Business, but whose home institution is not a recognized JMSB exchange partner or whose home institution has already filled its reserved exchange (ISEP) spots with other nominated students, can request to be nominated as Visiting International Fee-Paying (VIFP) applicants.All sections of the VIFP Application and supporting documentation MUST be TYPED. Hand-written items will not be accepted.Application deadlinesPlease see our page for Canadian visiting and independent students.Will resume in October 2016Wednesday, September 28, 2016 (2:30 p.m.) in room MB 4.206 International Student Affairs, JMSB
1450 Guy St., MB 4.201 (see map)Tel: 514-848-2424 ext. 2721
Fax: 514-848-2822
CSEPrequest.jmsb@concordia.ca© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityVisiting & exchangeJohn Molson School of Business
            
                John Molson School of Business
            Contact usRelated linksConcordia Student Exchange Program (CSEP)
                
            
                
					
                    Visiting fee-paying option
                
            
                
					
                    Study exchange at Concordia
                
            
                
					
                    Visiting fee-paying optionConcordia students: go study abroad!
Students from abroad:JMSB CSEP Information SessionsMandatory workshop for accepted outgoing JMSB CSEP students (2016-2017 Academic Year)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424Eligibility requirementsVisiting from a Canadian university?http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/academics/visiting-exchange.htmlAn exciting feature of any university education is the contact students make with individuals from around the world. However, nothing compares to actually discovering the world for yourself!Faculty of Fine Arts students who wish to study at a partner institution must:All sessions are held on Fridays from 9:30 to 11:00 am on the following dates:You will not receive a confirmation, nor a reminder - please take down this information.October 14th, 2016 EV 6.735
October 21st, 2016 ** VA 323
October 28th, 2016 EV 6.735
November 4th, 2016 EV 6.735
November 11th, 2016 EV 6.735
November 18th, 2016 EV 6.735
November 25th, 2016 EV 6.735
December 2nd, 2016 EV 6.735Please submit the following documentation for evaluation:Deadline date and location: January 18, 2017  - EV 2.705NOTE: The Faculty of Fine Arts does not accept exchange applications for the June (Concordia International) deadline. BE AWARE: Students away on exchange can not be concurrently registered in courses at Concordia University. International students may not go away on exchange to their home country. Fine Arts students who wish to study at an institution that does not have a CSEP partnership with Concordia or who are not eligible for the CSEP may apply to be a Visiting Fee-Paying Student at an alternate institutions.All Fine Arts students interested in being a Visitor or a (VIFP) Visiting International Fee Paying student need to obtain information regarding transfer credits and placement of those credits within their Concordia degree.  Register for an information session or email Perla Muyal.Note that since this program is self-directed, students will not be recognized as full-time Concordia University students and therefore may not be eligible for government funding/loans while away.  Students wishing to study abroad at non-partner institutions must:For application and partnerships information, please visit Concordia's International web page.Portfolio for Fine Arts students:All Fine Arts students who wish to take studio- or performance-based courses must provide a web-based portfolio (please use simple navigation with no passwords or profiles that would need to be created by the viewer) of current creative work. The work must relate to the types of courses (studio/performance) you would like to take. If the work is collaborative, please indicate your role in the production.Additional portfolio requirement details can be obtained by contacting Perla Muyal.The following programs/courses are not available to exchange students:Students interested in the Contemporary Dance program at 2nd and 3rd year of study will be required to register concurrently for the following courses:Students must submit a video portfolio and a respond to the departmental questionnaire. No independent study projects are accepted.All other Fine Arts courses, and especially studio-based courses, offer limited access. It is recommended that students consider a full year of study in the Faculty of Fine Arts due to the structure of the course offerings.Students interested in taking courses in the Faculty of Fine Arts should note that many courses will charge a lab fee which is not covered by the tuition waiver. All visitors whose home institutions are not part of an exchange program may attend Concordia for one semester or one academic year by obtaining a letter of permission from their school. Portfolio for Fine Arts students:All students who wish to take studio- or performance-based courses must provide a web-based portfolio (please use simple navigation with no passwords or profiles that would need to be created by the viewer) of current creative work. The work must relate to the types of courses (studio/performance) you would like to take. If the work is collaborative, please indicate your role in the production.Visitors are responsible for paying Concordia tuition fees.For information about application to the Faculty of Fine Arts, contact Perla Muyal.The following programs/courses are not available to visiting students:Students interested in the Contemporary Dance program at 2nd and 3rd year of study will be required to register concurrently for the following courses:Students must submit a video portfolio and a respond to the departmental questionnaire. No independent study projects are accepted.All other Fine Arts courses, and especially studio-based courses, offer limited access. It is recommended that students consider a full year of study in the Faculty of Fine Arts due to the structure of the course offerings.Students interested in taking courses in the Faculty of Fine Arts should note that many courses will charge a lab fee which is not covered by the tuition waiver. © Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityVisiting & exchangeFaculty of Fine Arts
            
                Faculty of Fine Arts
            Related linksConcordia Student Exchange Program (CSEP)
                
            
                
					
                    Visiting fee-paying option
                
            
                
					
                    Exchange students
                
            
                
					
                    Non-exchange visitors to Fine ArtsConcordia students: go study abroad!
Visitors to the Faculty of Fine Arts:Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424