http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2016/03/03/webster-library-tranformation-phase-2.html
Welcome to more study space, natural sunlight, vibrant colours and comfortable seating. No, it’s not a dream — it's the Webster Library Transformation.The fifth floor of the R. Howard Webster Library opened today at 1:30 p.m. Guylaine Beaudry, university librarian; Paula Wood-Adams, dean of Graduate Studies; and the library team were on hand to welcome student after smiling student. The Webster Library Transformation will make the 2.2 million visits to Concordia’s libraries (just last year!) an even better experience.So, if you thought libraries were, well, obsolete — think again... In comparison: Centre Bell, home to our beloved Montreal Canadiens, receives 1.5 million visits per year.For starters, you’ll find 550 additional study spaces.Once on-site, you can decide if you’d first like to explore your new surroundings, make a beeline to study in one of the three new large reading rooms or settle into the collaborative space.Need to work on a project with a few classmates? No problem. You can easily book one of five new group-study rooms. Three of the rooms double as librarian-consultations rooms where you can set up a time to speak with a subject librarian.You get something special, too. Phase 2 delivers three silent dissertation writers’ rooms, shelving and lockers to store your belongings, and a lounge to help break that sense of isolation during marathon writing and research sessions.
 The Webster Library Transformation is a carefully conceived and meticulously planned, four-phase, three-year project that launched in January 2015 and is slated to wrap up in late 2017.The radical rethinking of the library wasn’t limited to space, but extended to its collections, technology and a library team that supported the project every step of the way.With a total of 12 different types of study space, the transformation accommodates a wide range of student needs — in-line with fostering a culture of research, innovation and collaboration at Concordia, so that you succeed from first year to graduation.The entire project helps deliver a next-generation education and supports the university’s strategic direction "teach for tomorrow."And, don’t forget to take part in the student poetry contest, in celebration of the opening Phase 2. Concordia's library team wants to know what libraries mean to you!While making your way to, or from, the fifth floor, visit Phase 1 on the third!It features two enclosed reading rooms, three group-study rooms, a zero-noise room, seminar room, collaboration space and multifunctional room.Enjoy!
For more photos and to learn more about Concordia's project, read the Webster Library Transformation blog. 
        450 study seats, a zero-noise room and more: welcome to the Webster Library Transformation
    
        Concordia’s next-generation Webster Library
    
        A 21st-century vision for the Webster Library
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityPhase 2 of the Webster Library is now open — and bathed in natural sunlightNews
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsLatest storiesMost popularOPINION: Big Pharma’s troubles are good news for innovationConcordia receives funding for 5 Canada Research ChairsThe fight against fake newsConcordia receives $2 million to advance smart-grid technology‘Student success is more gratifying than any prize’13 essential tips for exam successTo nap or not to nap? Sleep tips for ConcordiansJason Camlot wins the Donald Gray Prize for best Victorian Studies essay‘We are conducting research in a living lab’What's it like to meet  the Oracle of Omaha?Why this transformation?
What’s on offer?And … for graduate students?
The big picture
Student poetry contest
Visit Phase 1, tooFind an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424