http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2016/09/19/women-stem-wiki-edit-a-thon-wikipedia-science-literacy.html
In celebration of Science Literacy Week (Sept. 19-25), the Concordia news desk is highlighting a related activity every day. See Tuesday's 6 cool Concordia science courses for non-scientists and Wednesday's Rocketry and robotics at Space Concordia.
If you’ve ever wanted to learn how to fix a typo, add a citation or create a whole new article on the world’s most popular online encyclopedia, now’s your chance.In celebration of Science Literacy Week, Concordia University Library is partnering with McGill Library to host a Women in Science Wikipedia edit-a-thon this Wednesday, September 21.The event will focus on editing, improving and writing Wikipedia content about women who contributed to the sciences.“Editing scientist entries in Wikipedia is a great way to meld science with information literacy skills,” says Krista Alexander, chemistry, biochemistry and physics subject librarian and co-organizer of the event. “It showcases the importance of thinking critically about the information sources students are using and citing those sources properly.”While the event is focused on women in science, all are welcome to participate and no Wikipedia editing experience is necessary. The Concordia University Library views the event as an inclusive opportunity to learn.“Wikipedia is the most comprehensive encyclopedia we currently have, but it’s a work in progress,” explains Pamela Carson, web wervices librarian. “It’s a crowd-sourced project and each of us has the ability to make it a little more comprehensive, complete and correct. I’d like students to understand how information gets on Wikipedia, and learning how to edit Wikipedia reveals this process.”The edit-a-thon will start at 2 p.m. with a brief tutorial on how to edit Wikipedia. This will be followed by a group editing session, where experienced Wikipedia editors and librarians will help participants one-on-one and answer questions.Assistance will be provided for Wikipedia newcomers as needed throughout the event and drop-in participation is welcome. Participants are encouraged to bring their own laptops if they have them, but laptops can also be borrowed from the Circulation Desk on LB-2.Carson says an academic library is the perfect setting for a Wikipedia edit-a-thon, mainly because it’s a great place to do research. “We have access to millions of scholarly articles and books which can be used as high-quality sources to support assertions made in Wikipedia.”
Concordia's Women in Science Wikipedia edit-a-thon takes place this Wednesday, September 21, between 2 p.m. and 5 p.m. in Room LB-322 of the Webster Library, located in the J.W. McConnell (LB) Building (1400 De Maisonneuve W.).  
        6 cool Concordia science courses for non-scientists
    
        Space Concordia gears up for another year of rocketry, robotics and more
    
        Happy birthday, Wikipedia! Checking in with Concordia's ACTivist editors
    
        A Wikipedia edit-a-thon tackles gender and race imbalances
    Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityWiki for women in STEM!News
            
                News
            Related LinksRelated storiesRelated topicsLatest storiesMost popularOPINION: Big Pharma’s troubles are good news for innovationConcordia receives funding for 5 Canada Research ChairsThe fight against fake newsConcordia receives $2 million to advance smart-grid technology‘Student success is more gratifying than any prize’13 essential tips for exam successTo nap or not to nap? Sleep tips for ConcordiansJason Camlot wins the Donald Gray Prize for best Victorian Studies essay‘We are conducting research in a living lab’What's it like to meet  the Oracle of Omaha?Find an expertConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424