http://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/events/artsci/sdbi/2015/04/21/worldwide-readingsandbooklaunchcommemoratingthearmeniangenocide.htmlOn the occasion of the Armenian Genocide Centennial, and as part of the Worldwide Readings of international literature festival berlin, we are pleased to invite you to an evening of literary events.

4 pm – 5:30 pm
 Multi-lingual Readings of poems and excerpts from literary works on the subject of Crimes Against Humanity of various cultural backgroundsThis upcoming April 24th marks 100 years since the beginning of the Armenian Genocide.    Several hundred Armenian intellectuals – poets, musicians, parliamentary representatives and members of the clergy – were arrested in Constantinople (today Istanbul) and deported to the Turkish interior where most of them were murdered. It was the start of a crime against humanity. The extermination of the Armenians during World War One was the first systematically planned and executed genocide of modern times. More than a million Armenians in the Ottoman Empire died during this genocidal campaign.
Since then, Armenians, including an  increasing number of voices from the democratic Turkish civil society, have become loud and have spoken out against forgetting. In remembrance of the victims and in association with the demand for international recognition of the genocide, a worldwide reading will be held on 21 April 2015. As Canadians and Montrealers, we are opening up this event to multicultural participation.

http://www.worldwide-reading.com/archiv-en/24-april-2015-worldwide-reading-commemorating-the-centenary-of-the-armenian-genocide

5:45 pm – 7:00 pm
 Book-launch: Atom Egoyan et la diaspora arménienne. Génocide, identités, déplacements, survivances by Nellie Hogikyan, Ph.D

Dr. Nellie Hogikyan is an independant scholar working in the field of exile and diaspora. She has co-edited the anthology Femmes et exils : formes et figures (PUL, 2010) and La Survivance en héritage : passages de Janine Altounian au Québec (PUL, 2013). Hogikyan has published several articles in French and English on the themes of collective trauma and intergenerational survival.

http://www.editions-harmattan.fr/index.asp?navig=catalogue&obj=livre&no=45887

© Concordia UniversityConcordia University
                        Worldwide Readings and Book Launch Commemorating the Armenian GenocideSimone de Beauvoir Institute
            
                Simone de Beauvoir InstituteConcordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424