http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/youth-work.htmlThe Graduate Diploma in Youth Work prepares students for work with youth using an applied approach that integrates community youth development with clinical understandings. Emancipatory and psycho-education approaches will be emphasized as well as the capacity for innovative, ethical, and reflexive practice. As leaders in the youth work field, graduates will have developed advanced intervention skills, the ability to establish facilitative relationships and collaborative strength-based approaches in a range of contexts.Requirements for the DiplomaCredits. A fully qualified candidate is required to complete a minimum of 33 credits. In cases where cross-listed courses at the undergraduate level have already been completed, the candidate is required to select electives from a pre-approved list in order to fulfill the 33-credit requirement.Admission Requirements. The minimum requirement for admission is a Bachelor’s/Baccalaureate degree with a minimum GPA of 3.00 and two letters of recommendation. Required prerequisites at the undergraduate level include at least three credits in adolescent development and three credits in social science research methods. Evidence of some volunteer or work experience with children or youth is required, and both a letter of intent and interview are required for admission. Candidates must be aware that a Police Check is required prior to an internship placement.Your completed application will include:Please apply online. Read the how-to guide for application procedures. Priority will be given to those who apply within the official deadlines listed above. Some programs may continue to accept applications after these deadlines. For more information, please contact the department.Consult the Graduate Calendar for a list of courses.Financial support for diploma students is available in the form of:Email: gpa.ahsc@concordia.caTel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2260Location: 
 7141 Sherbrooke Street West, VE 223
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
 H4B 1R6Concordia GradConcordia University Future Students© Concordia UniversityConcordia UniversityYouth Work (GrDip)Distinctive features of this program
                
            
                
					
                    Who is this program for?
                
            
                
					
                    What will you learn
                
            
                
					
                    Degree requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Admission requirements
                
            
                
					
                    Application process
                
            
                
					
                    Application deadlines
                
            
                
					
                    Courses
                
            
                
					
                    Assistantships
                
            Contact usWhy pursue a diploma in youth work?
Admission informationGraduate Diploma (GrDip)Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424